Question: What causes Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS) ?
Answer: Despite a vigorous search, scientists have not yet identified what causes CFS. While a single cause for CFS may yet be identified, another possibility is that CFS has multiple causes. Conditions that have been studied to determine if they cause or trigger the development of CFS include infections, immune disorders, stress, trauma, and toxins.
  Infection
  
Various types of infections have been studied to determine if they might cause or trigger CFS:
  
   - Candida albicans, a fungus that causes yeast infections
   - Mycoplasma, a cause of atypical pneumonia
   - Ross River virus, which causes Ross River Fever, a mosquito-borne tropical disease
  
  Could One Type of Infection Lead to CFS?
  
Researchers from around the world have studied if a single type of infection might be the cause of CFS, analyzed the data, and not yet found any association between CFS and infection. Researchers are still analyzing samples from CFS patients using the latest molecular methods to search for previously unknown infections (pathogen discovery). To date, these studies suggest that no one infection or pathogen causes CFS and that the illness may be triggered by a variety of illnesses or conditions. In fact, infection with Epstein-Barr virus, Ross River virus, and Coxiella burnetti will lead to a post-infective condition that meets the criteria for CFS in approximately 10-12% of cases. People who had severe symptoms when they became infected were more likely than those with mild symptoms to later develop CFS symptoms. The possibility remains that there may be a variety of different ways in which patients can develop CFS.
  Immune System and Allergies
  
Studies have looked to see if changes in a person's immune system might lead to CFS. The findings have been mixed. Similarities in symptoms from immune responses to infection and CFS lead to hypotheses that CFS may be caused by stress or a viral infection, which may lead to the chronic production of cytokines and then to CFS.
  
Antibodies against normal parts of the body (auto-antibodies) and immune complexes have been seen in some CFS patients. However, no associated tissue damage typical of autoimmune disease has been described in CFS patients. The opportunistic infections or increased risk for cancer observed in persons with immunodeficiency diseases or in immunosuppressed individuals is also not observed in CFS.
  
T-cell activation markers have been reported to be different between groups of CFS patients and healthy persons, but not all investigators have consistently observed these differences.
  
Allergic diseases and secondary illnesses such as sinusitis could be one predisposing factor for CFS, but not all CFS patients have allergies. Many patients do, however, report intolerances for certain substances that may be found in foods or over-the-counter medications, such as alcohol.
  
                
  Hypothalamic-Pituitary Adrenal (HPA) Axis
  
The central nervous system plays an important role in CFS. Physical or emotional stress, which is commonly reported as a pre-onset condition in CFS patients, alters the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, or HPA axis, leading to altered release of corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH), cortisol, and other hormones. These hormones can influence the immune system and many other body systems.
  
Some CFS patients produce lower levels of cortisol than do healthy people. Similar hormonal abnormalities have also been observed among CFS patients and in persons with related disorders like fibromyalgia. Cortisol suppresses inflammation and cellular immune activation, and reduced levels might relax constraints on inflammatory processes and immune cell activation. Even though CFS patients had lower levels of cortisol than healthy individuals, their cortisol levels were still within the acceptable range of what is considered normal. Therefore, doctors cannot use cortisol levels as a way to diagnose CFS.
  
                
  Abnormally Low Blood Pressure and Lightheadedness (Neurally Mediated Hypotension)
  
Disturbances in the autonomic regulation of blood pressure and pulse have been found in CFS patients. This problem with maintaining blood pressure can be diagnosed by using tilt table testing, which involves laying the patient horizontally on a table and then tilting the table upright to 70 degrees for 45 minutes while monitoring blood pressure and heart rate. Persons with neurally mediated hypotension (NMH) or postural orthostatic tachycardia (POTS) will develop lower blood pressure under these conditions, as well as other characteristic symptoms, such as lightheadedness, visual dimming, or a slow response to verbal stimuli. Others may develop an unusually rapid heart rate also associated with the symptoms of the syndrome. Many CFS patients experience lightheadedness or worsened fatigue when they stand for prolonged periods or when in warm places, such as in a hot shower -- all circumstances that are known to trigger NMH or POTS.
  
NMH and/or POTS share some of the symptoms of CFS. They should be considered in a CFS patients whose symptoms are worsened with changes in position, after eating, following unusual amounts of or inadequate fluid intake, or increases in activity. Not all patients with CFS will have these conditions, however.
  
                
  Nutritional Deficiency
  
There is no published scientific evidence that CFS is caused by a nutritional deficiency. While evidence is currently lacking for nutritional defects in CFS patients, it should also be added that a balanced diet can be favorable to better health in general and would be expected to benefit a person with any chronic illness.

Question: What causes What I need to know about Crohn's Disease ?
Answer: Researchers are studying the possible causes of Crohns disease. Your bodys natural defense system, called the immune system, protects you from infection by fighting against bacteria, viruses, and other things that can make you sick. Researchers believe that with Crohns disease, the immune system attacks harmless bacteria and viruses. During the attack, white blood cells gather in the intestinal lining. The white blood cells cause chronic inflammation, which leads to ulcers, or sores, and damage to the intestines.
                
Other factors associated with Crohns disease are
                
- genesthe traits passed down from your parents  - unknown triggers caused by the environment

Question: What causes Hypoglycemia ?
Answer: Diabetes Medications
                
Hypoglycemia can occur as a side effect of some diabetes medications, including insulin and oral diabetes medicationspillsthat increase insulin production, such as
                
- chlorpropamide (Diabinese)  - glimepiride (Amaryl)  - glipizide (Glucotrol, Glucotrol XL)  - glyburide (DiaBeta, Glynase, Micronase)  - nateglinide (Starlix)  - repaglinide (Prandin)  - sitagliptin (Januvia)  - tolazamide  - tolbutamide
                
Certain combination pills can also cause hypoglycemia, including
                
- glipizide + metformin (Metaglip)  - glyburide + metformin (Glucovance)  - pioglitazone + glimepiride (Duetact)  - rosiglitazone + glimepiride (Avandaryl)  - sitagliptin + metformin (Janumet)
                
Other types of diabetes pills, when taken alone, do not cause hypoglycemia. Examples of these medications are
                
- acarbose (Precose)  - metformin (Glucophage)  - miglitol (Glyset)  - pioglitazone (Actos)  - rosiglitazone (Avandia)
                
However, taking these pills along with other diabetes medicationsinsulin, pills that increase insulin production, or bothincreases the risk of hypoglycemia.
                
In addition, use of the following injectable medications can cause hypoglycemia:
                
- Pramlintide (Symlin), which is used along with insulin  - Exenatide (Byetta), which can cause hypoglycemia when used in combination with chlorpropamide, glimepiride, glipizide, glyburide, tolazamide, and tolbutamide
                
More information about diabetes medications is provided in the NIDDK health topic, What I need to know about Diabetes Medicines, or by calling 18008608747.
                
Other Causes of Hypoglycemia
                
In people on insulin or pills that increase insulin production, low blood glucose can be due to
                
- meals or snacks that are too small, delayed, or skipped  - increased physical activity  - alcoholic beverages

Question: What causes Hypoglycemia ?
Answer: Diabetes Medications
                
Hypoglycemia can occur as a side effect of some diabetes medications, including insulin and oral diabetes medicationspillsthat increase insulin production, such as
                
- chlorpropamide (Diabinese)  - glimepiride (Amaryl)  - glipizide (Glucotrol, Glucotrol XL)  - glyburide (DiaBeta, Glynase, Micronase)  - nateglinide (Starlix)  - repaglinide (Prandin)  - sitagliptin (Januvia)  - tolazamide  - tolbutamide
                
Certain combination pills can also cause hypoglycemia, including
                
- glipizide + metformin (Metaglip)  - glyburide + metformin (Glucovance)  - pioglitazone + glimepiride (Duetact)  - rosiglitazone + glimepiride (Avandaryl)  - sitagliptin + metformin (Janumet)
                
Other types of diabetes pills, when taken alone, do not cause hypoglycemia. Examples of these medications are
                
- acarbose (Precose)  - metformin (Glucophage)  - miglitol (Glyset)  - pioglitazone (Actos)  - rosiglitazone (Avandia)
                
However, taking these pills along with other diabetes medicationsinsulin, pills that increase insulin production, or bothincreases the risk of hypoglycemia.
                
In addition, use of the following injectable medications can cause hypoglycemia:
                
- Pramlintide (Symlin), which is used along with insulin  - Exenatide (Byetta), which can cause hypoglycemia when used in combination with chlorpropamide, glimepiride, glipizide, glyburide, tolazamide, and tolbutamide
                
More information about diabetes medications is provided in the NIDDK health topic, What I need to know about Diabetes Medicines, or by calling 18008608747.
                
Other Causes of Hypoglycemia
                
In people on insulin or pills that increase insulin production, low blood glucose can be due to
                
- meals or snacks that are too small, delayed, or skipped  - increased physical activity  - alcoholic beverages

Question: What causes Kidney Stones in Adults ?
Answer: Kidney stones can form when substances in the urinesuch as calcium, oxalate, and phosphorusbecome highly concentrated. Certain foods may promote stone formation in people who are susceptible, but scientists do not believe that eating any specific food causes stones to form in people who are not susceptible. People who do not drink enough fluids may also be at higher risk, as their urine is more concentrated.
                
People who are at increased risk of kidney stones are those with
                
- hypercalciuria, a condition that runs in families in which urine contains unusually large amounts of calcium; this is the most common condition found in those who form calcium stones  - a family history of kidney stones  - cystic kidney diseases, which are disorders that cause fluid-filled sacs to form on the kidneys  - hyperparathyroidism, a condition in which the parathyroid glands, which are four pea-sized glands located in the neck, release too much hormone, causing extra calcium in the blood  - renal tubular acidosis, a disease that occurs when the kidneys fail to excrete acids into the urine, which causes a persons blood to remain too acidic  - cystinuria, a condition in which urine contains high levels of the amino acid cystine  - hyperoxaluria, a condition in which urine contains unusually large amounts of oxalate  - hyperuricosuria, a disorder of uric acid metabolism  - gout, a disorder that causes painful swelling of the joints  - blockage of the urinary tract  - chronic inflammation of the bowel  - a history of gastrointestinal (GI) tract surgery
                
Others at increased risk of kidney stones are people taking certain medications including
                
- diureticsmedications that help the kidneys remove fluid from the body  - calcium-based antacids  - the protease inhibitor indinavir (Crixivan), a medication used to treat HIV infection  - the anti-seizure medication topiramate (Topamax)

Question: What causes Anemia in Chronic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: When kidneys are diseased or damaged, they do not make enough EPO. As a result, the bone marrow makes fewer red blood cells, causing anemia. When blood has fewer red blood cells, it deprives the body of the oxygen it needs.
                
Other common causes of anemia in people with kidney disease include blood loss from hemodialysis and low levels of the following nutrients found in food:
                
- iron  - vitamin B12  - folic acid
                
These nutrients are necessary for red blood cells to make hemoglobin, the main oxygen-carrying protein in the red blood cells.
                
If treatments for kidney-related anemia do not help, the health care provider will look for other causes of anemia, including
                
- other problems with bone marrow  - inflammatory problemssuch as arthritis, lupus, or inflammatory bowel diseasein which the bodys immune system attacks the bodys own cells and organs  - chronic infections such as diabetic ulcers  - malnutrition

Question: What causes Dermatitis Herpetiformis: Skin Manifestation of Celiac Disease (For Health Care Professionals) ?
Answer: Dermatitis herpetiformis is caused by the deposit of immunoglobulin A (IgA) in the skin, which triggers further immunologic reactions resulting in lesion formation. DH is an external manifestation of an abnormal immune response to gluten, in which IgA antibodies form against the skin antigen epidermal transglutaminase.
                
Family studies show that 5 percent of first-degree relatives of a person with DH will also have DH. An additional 5 percent of first-degree relatives of a person with DH will have celiac disease.4 Various other autoimmune diseases are associated with DH, the most common being hypothyroidism.

Question: What causes Goodpasture Syndrome ?
Answer: The causes of Goodpasture syndrome are not fully understood. People who smoke or use hair dyes appear to be at increased risk for this condition. Exposure to hydrocarbon fumes, metallic dust, and certain drugs, such as cocaine, may also raise a persons risk. Genetics may also play a part, as a small number of cases have been reported in more than one family member.

Question: What causes What I need to know about Interstitial Cystitis/Painful Bladder Syndrome ?
Answer: Many different problems can cause urgency, frequency, and bladder pain. Just a few of them are
                
- infections  - bowel disorders  - endometriosistissue that normally lines the womb that appears in other places outside of the womb  - bladder cancer
                
Your doctor will ask you questions and run tests to find the cause of your bladder problems. Usually, the doctor will find that you have either an infection or an overactive bladder. But urgency, frequency, and pain are not always caused by infection.
                
Sometimes the cause is hard to find. If all the test results are normal and all other diseases are ruled out, your doctor may find that you have IC/PBS.

Question: What causes Hematuria (Blood in the Urine) ?
Answer: Hematuria can be caused by menstruation, vigorous exercise, sexual activity, viral illness, trauma, or infection, such as a urinary tract infection (UTI). More serious causes of hematuria include
                
- cancer of the kidney or bladder  - inflammation of the kidney, urethra, bladder, or prostatea walnut-shaped gland in men that surrounds the urethra at the neck of the bladder and supplies fluid that goes into semen  - polycystic kidney diseasean inherited disorder characterized by many grape-like clusters of fluid-filled cysts that make both kidneys larger over time, taking over and destroying working kidney tissue  - blood clots  - blood clotting disorders, such as hemophilia  - sickle cell diseasean inherited disorder in which RBCs form an abnormal crescent shape, resulting in less oxygen delivered to the bodys tissues, clogging of small blood vessels, and disruption of healthy blood flow

Question: What causes What I need to know about Erectile Dysfunction ?
Answer: Erectile dysfunction often has more than one cause. Many diseases can damage nerves, arteries, and muscles. Some can lead to ED, such as
                
- high blood pressure  - diabetes, when your blood glucose, also called blood sugar, is too high  - clogged arteries  - heart and blood vessel disease  - chronic kidney disease  - multiple sclerosis, a disease that attacks the nerves  - treatments for prostate cancer, including radiation, surgery to remove the prostate, and hormone treatments  - injury to the penis, spinal cord, prostate, bladder, or pelvis  - surgery for bladder cancer  - Peyronies disease, in which scar tissue, called a plaque, forms in the penis
                
Unhealthy lifestyle choices, such as smoking, drinking too much alcohol, using illegal drugs, being overweight, and not exercising, can lead to ED.
                
Mental health problems such as the following can also cause or worsen ED:
                
- depression  - fear of sexual failure  - guilt  - low self-esteem  - stress  - worry
                
Even when ED has a physical cause, mental health problems can make ED worse. For example, a physical problem may slow your sexual arousal, which may make you more nervous and worsen your ED.
                
In addition, ED can be a side effect of many common medicines. A small number of ED cases result from low testosterone, a male hormone.

Question: What causes What I need to know about Erectile Dysfunction ?
Answer: Having ED can cause you to feel depressed or anxious. ED may also cause low self-esteem. When you have ED, you may not have a satisfying sex life. You may not feel as close with your sexual partner, which may strain your relationship.
                

                
See Your Doctor if You Have Erectile Dysfunction, as Erectile Dysfunction Could Mean You Have a More Serious Condition   If you have problems getting or keeping an erection, and the problems last for more than a few weeks, you should talk with your doctor. ED can be a sign of other health problems, such as diabetes or heart disease.   When you meet with your doctor, you might use phrases like, Ive been having problems in the bedroom or Ive been having erection problems. Remember that a healthy sex life is part of a healthy life. Dont be shy about seeking help. Your doctor treats medical problems every day.   If talking with your doctor doesnt put you at ease, ask for a referral to another doctor. Your doctor may send you to a urologista doctor who specializes in sexual and urinary problems.

Question: What causes What I need to know about Erectile Dysfunction ?
Answer: To find the cause of your ED, your doctor may
                
- take your medical and sexual history  - ask you questions about your mental health  - give you a physical exam  - test your blood  - give you a nighttime erection test  - perform an injection test  - perform a Doppler penile ultrasound
                
Medical and Sexual History
                
Your doctor will ask general questions about your health, as well as specific questions about your erection problems and your relationship with your sexual partner. Your doctor might ask you questions such as
                
- Have you ever had surgery?  - What medicines do you take?  - How sure are you that you can get and keep an erection?  - When you have erections, how often are they hard enough for sex?  - During sex, how often are you able to keep your erection?  - When you try to have sex, how often are you happy with the sex?  - How would you rate your level of sexual desire?  - How often are you able to reach climax and ejaculate?  - Do you have an erection when you wake up in the morning?  - Do you use illegal drugs, drink alcohol, or smoke?
                
The answers to these questions will help your doctor understand the problem.
                
Bring a list of all the medicines you take, or the actual medicines, to show to your doctor.
                
Mental Health Questions
                
Your doctor may ask you questions about your mental health. For example, the doctor may ask if you feel nervous or depressed. He or she may also ask you to answer questions on paper. The doctor may also ask your sexual partner questions to get more information about the problem.
                
Physical Exam
                
A physical exam can help your doctor find the cause of your ED. As part of the exam, the doctor will examine your testes and penis, take your blood pressure, and check for problems with your blood flow.
                
Blood Tests
                
A blood test involves drawing your blood at a doctors office or a commercial facility and sending the sample to a lab for analysis. Blood tests can show possible causes of ED, such as diabetes, clogged blood vessels, or chronic kidney disease. Low levels of testosterone in your blood can explain why you may have lost interest in sex.
                
Nighttime Erection Test
                
During a nighttime erection test, you wear a plastic band around your penis to test whether you have nighttime erections. The band easily breaks if your penis expands. This test shows if you had at least one erection during the night. Another test uses an electronic device that can record the number of erections, how long they last, and how firm they are. A man normally has three to five erections during the night while he sleeps. If you do have an erection, it probably means that your ED is more likely a mental health issue. If you do not have these erections, you probably have nerve damage or poor blood flow to your penis. You may do this test in your home or in a special sleep lab.
                
Injection Test
                
During an injection test, the doctor will inject a medicine into your penis to cause an erection. If the erection is not firm or does not last, it may mean you have a problem with blood flow. This test most often takes place in the doctors office.
                
Doppler Penile Ultrasound
                
An x-ray technician most often performs a Doppler penile ultrasound in a doctors office or an outpatient center. During a Doppler penile ultrasound, the x-ray technician or doctor lightly passes a device over your penis to create images of blood vessels in your penis. An injection is used to create an erection. The images can show if you have a blood flow problem. The pictures appear on a computer screen. A radiologista doctor who specializes in medical imaginglooks at the images to find possible problems.

Question: What causes Celiac Disease ?
Answer: Researchers do not know the exact cause of celiac disease. Celiac disease sometimes runs in families. In 50 percent of people who have celiac disease, a family member, when screened, also has the disease.1
                
A person's chances of developing celiac disease increase when his or her genestraits passed from parent to childhave variants, or changes. In celiac disease, certain gene variants and other factors, such as a person's exposure to things in his or her environment, can lead to celiac disease. Read more about genes and genetic conditions at www.ghr.nlm.nih.gov.
                
For most people, eating something with gluten is harmless. For others, an exposure to gluten can cause, or trigger, celiac disease to become active. Sometimes surgery, pregnancy, childbirth, a viral infection, or severe emotional stress can also trigger celiac disease symptoms.

Question: What causes Hemochromatosis ?
Answer: Primary Hemochromatosis
                
Inherited genetic defects cause primary hemochromatosis, and mutations in the HFE gene are associated with up to 90 percent of cases.1 The HFE gene helps regulate the amount of iron absorbed from food. The two known mutations of HFE are C282Y and H63D. C282Y defects are the most common cause of primary hemochromatosis.
                
People inherit two copies of the HFE geneone copy from each parent. Most people who inherit two copies of the HFE gene with the C282Y defect will have higher-than-average iron absorption. However, not all of these people will develop health problems associated with hemochromatosis. One recent study found that 31 percent of people with two copies of the C282Y defect developed health problems by their early fifties.2 Men who develop health problems from HFE defects typically develop them after age 40.1 Women who develop health problems from HFE defects typically develop them after menopause.1
                
People who inherit two H63D defects or one C282Y and one H63D defect may have higher-than-average iron absorption.3 However, they are unlikely to develop iron overload and organ damage.
                
Rare defects in other genes may also cause primary hemochromatosis. Mutations in the hemojuvelin or hepcidin genes cause juvenile hemochromatosis, a type of primary hemochromatosis. People with juvenile hemochromatosis typically develop severe iron overload and liver and heart damage between ages 15 and 30.
                
Secondary Hemochromatosis
                
Hemochromatosis that is not inherited is called secondary hemochromatosis. The most common cause of secondary hemochromatosis is frequent blood transfusions in people with severe anemia. Anemia is a condition in which red blood cells are fewer or smaller than normal, which means they carry less oxygen to the bodys cells. Types of anemia that may require frequent blood transfusions include
                
- congenital, or inherited, anemias such as sickle cell disease, thalassemia, and Fanconis syndrome  - severe acquired anemias, which are not inherited, such as aplastic anemia and autoimmune hemolytic anemia
                
Liver diseasessuch as alcoholic liver disease, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, and chronic hepatitis C infectionmay cause mild iron overload. However, this iron overload causes much less liver damage than the underlying liver disease causes.
                
Neonatal Hemochromatosis
                
Neonatal hemochromatosis is a rare disease characterized by liver failure and death in fetuses and newborns. Researchers are studying the causes of neonatal hemochromatosis and believe more than one factor may lead to the disease.
                
Experts previously considered neonatal hemochromatosis a type of primary hemochromatosis. However, recent studies suggest genetic defects that increase iron absorption do not cause this disease. Instead, the mothers immune system may produce antibodiesproteins made by the immune system to protect the body from foreign substances such as bacteria or virusesthat damage the liver of the fetus. Women who have had one child with neonatal hemochromatosis are at risk for having more children with the disease.4 Treating these women during pregnancy with intravenous (IV) immunoglobulina solution of antibodies from healthy peoplecan prevent fetal liver damage.4
                
Researchers supported by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) recently found that a combination of exchange transfusionremoving blood and replacing it with donor bloodand IV immunoglobulin is an effective treatment for babies born with neonatal hemochromatosis.5

Question: What causes Adrenal Insufficiency and Addison's Disease ?
Answer: Autoimmune disorders cause most cases of Addisons disease. Infections and medications may also cause the disease.
                
Autoimmune Disorders
                
Up to 80 percent of Addisons disease cases are caused by an autoimmune disorder, which is when the bodys immune system attacks the bodys own cells and organs.2 In autoimmune Addisons, which mainly occurs in middle-aged females, the immune system gradually destroys the adrenal cortexthe outer layer of the adrenal glands.2
                
Primary adrenal insufficiency occurs when at least 90 percent of the adrenal cortex has been destroyed.1 As a result, both cortisol and aldosterone are often lacking. Sometimes only the adrenal glands are affected. Sometimes other endocrine glands are affected as well, as in polyendocrine deficiency syndrome.
                
Polyendocrine deficiency syndrome is classified into type 1 and type 2. Type 1 is inherited and occurs in children. In addition to adrenal insufficiency, these children may have
                
- underactive parathyroid glands, which are four pea-sized glands located on or near the thyroid gland in the neck; they produce a hormone that helps maintain the correct balance of calcium in the body.   - slow sexual development.   - pernicious anemia, a severe type of anemia; anemia is a condition in which red blood cells are fewer than normal, which means less oxygen is carried to the bodys cells. With most types of anemia, red blood cells are smaller than normal; however, in pernicious anemia, the cells are bigger than normal.   - chronic fungal infections.   - chronic hepatitis, a liver disease.
                
Researchers think type 2, which is sometimes called Schmidts syndrome, is also inherited. Type 2 usually affects young adults and may include
                
- an underactive thyroid gland, which produces hormones that regulate metabolism   - slow sexual development   - diabetes, in which a person has high blood glucose, also called high blood sugar or hyperglycemia   - vitiligo, a loss of pigment on areas of the skin
                
Infections
                
Tuberculosis (TB), an infection that can destroy the adrenal glands, accounts for 10 to 15 percent of Addisons disease cases in developed countries.1 When primary adrenal insufficiency was first identified by Dr. Thomas Addison in 1849, TB was the most common cause of the disease. As TB treatment improved, the incidence of Addisons disease due to TB of the adrenal glands greatly decreased. However, recent reports show an increase in Addisons disease from infections such as TB and cytomegalovirus. Cytomegalovirus is a common virus that does not cause symptoms in healthy people; however, it does affect babies in the womb and people who have a weakened immune systemmostly due to HIV/AIDS.2 Other bacterial infections, such as Neisseria meningitidis, which is a cause of meningitis, and fungal infections can also lead to Addisons disease.
                
Other Causes
                
Less common causes of Addisons disease are
                
- cancer cells in the adrenal glands   - amyloidosis, a serious, though rare, group of diseases that occurs when abnormal proteins, called amyloids, build up in the blood and are deposited in tissues and organs   - surgical removal of the adrenal glands   - bleeding into the adrenal glands   - genetic defects including abnormal adrenal gland development, an inability of the adrenal glands to respond to ACTH, or a defect in adrenal hormone production   - medication-related causes, such as from anti-fungal medications and the anesthetic etomidate, which may be used when a person undergoes an emergency intubationthe placement of a flexible, plastic tube through the mouth and into the trachea, or windpipe, to assist with breathing
                

                
2

Question: What causes Adrenal Insufficiency and Addison's Disease ?
Answer: A lack of CRH or ACTH causes secondary adrenal insufficiency. The lack of these hormones in the body can be traced to several possible sources.
                
Stoppage of Corticosteroid Medication
                
A temporary form of secondary adrenal insufficiency may occur when a person who has been taking a synthetic glucocorticoid hormone, called a corticosteroid, for a long time stops taking the medication. Corticosteroids are often prescribed to treat inflammatory illnesses such as rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, and ulcerative colitis. In this case, the prescription doses often cause higher levels than those normally achieved by the glucocorticoid hormones created by the body. When a person takes corticosteroids for prolonged periods, the adrenal glands produce less of their natural hormones. Once the prescription doses of corticosteroid are stopped, the adrenal glands may be slow to restart their production of the bodys glucocorticoids. To give the adrenal glands time to regain function and prevent adrenal insufficiency, prescription corticosteroid doses should be reduced gradually over a period of weeks or even months. Even with gradual reduction, the adrenal glands might not begin to function normally for some time, so a person who has recently stopped taking prescription corticosteroids should be watched carefully for symptoms of secondary adrenal insufficiency.
                
Surgical Removal of Pituitary Tumors
                
Another cause of secondary adrenal insufficiency is surgical removal of the usually noncancerous, ACTH-producing tumors of the pituitary gland that cause Cushings syndrome. Cushings syndrome is a hormonal disorder caused by prolonged exposure of the bodys tissues to high levels of the hormone cortisol. When the tumors are removed, the source of extra ACTH is suddenly gone and a replacement hormone must be taken until the bodys adrenal glands are able to resume their normal production of cortisol. The adrenal glands might not begin to function normally for some time, so a person who has had an ACTH-producing tumor removed and is going off of his or her prescription corticosteroid replacement hormone should be watched carefully for symptoms of adrenal insufficiency.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Cushings Syndrome.
                
Changes in the Pituitary Gland
                
Less commonly, secondary adrenal insufficiency occurs when the pituitary gland either decreases in size or stops producing ACTH. These events can result from
                
- tumors or an infection in the pituitary   - loss of blood flow to the pituitary   - radiation for the treatment of pituitary or nearby tumors   - surgical removal of parts of the hypothalamus   - surgical removal of the pituitary

Question: What causes Hypothyroidism ?
Answer: Hypothyroidism has several causes, including
                
- Hashimotos disease  - thyroiditis, or inflammation of the thyroid  - congenital hypothyroidism, or hypothyroidism that is present at birth  - surgical removal of part or all of the thyroid  - radiation treatment of the thyroid  - some medications
                
Less commonly, hypothyroidism is caused by too much or too little iodine in the diet or by abnormalities of the pituitary gland.
                
Hashimotos Disease
                
Hashimotos disease, also called chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis, is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in the United States.1 Hashimotos disease is a form of chronic inflammation of the thyroid gland. Hashimotos disease is also an autoimmune disorder.
                
Normally, the immune system protects the body against foreign invaderssuch as viruses and bacteriathat can cause illness. But in autoimmune diseases, the immune system attacks the bodys own cells and organs. With Hashimotos disease, the immune system attacks the thyroid, causing inflammation and interfering with its ability to produce thyroid hormones.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Hashimotos Disease.
                
Thyroiditis
                
Thyroiditis causes stored thyroid hormone to leak out of the thyroid gland. At first, the leakage raises hormone levels in the blood, leading to hyperthyroidismwhen thyroid hormone levels are too highthat lasts for 1 or 2 months. Most people then develop hypothyroidism before the thyroid is completely healed.
                
Several types of thyroiditis can cause hyperthyroidism followed by hypothyroidism:
                
- Subacute thyroiditis. This condition involves painful inflammation and enlargement of the thyroid. Experts are not sure what causes subacute thyroiditis, but it may be related to a viral or bacterial infection. The condition usually goes away on its own in a few months.  - Postpartum thyroiditis. This type of thyroiditis develops after a woman gives birth. For more information, see the section titled What happens with pregnancy and thyroid conditions?  - Silent thyroiditis. This type of thyroiditis is called silent because it is painless, as is postpartum thyroiditis, even though the thyroid may be enlarged. Like postpartum thyroiditis, silent thyroiditis is probably an autoimmune condition and sometimes develops into permanent hypothyroidism.
                
Congenital Hypothyroidism
                
Some babies are born with a thyroid that is not fully developed or does not function properly. If untreated, congenital hypothyroidism can lead to mental retardation and growth failure. Early treatment can prevent these complications, so most newborns in the United States are screened for hypothyroidism.
                
Surgical Removal of the Thyroid
                
When part of the thyroid is removed, the remaining part may produce normal amounts of thyroid hormone, but some people who have this surgery develop hypothyroidism. Removal of the entire thyroid always results in hypothyroidism.
                
Part or all of the thyroid may be surgically removed as a treatment for
                
- hyperthyroidism  - a large goiter, which is an enlarged thyroid that may cause the neck to appear swollen and can interfere with normal breathing and swallowing  - thyroid nodules, which are noncancerous tumors, called adenomas, or lumps in the thyroid that can produce excess thyroid hormone  - thyroid cancer
                
Radiation Treatment of the Thyroid
                
Radioactive iodine, a common treatment for hyperthyroidism, gradually destroys the cells of the thyroid. Most people who receive radioactive iodine treatment eventually develop hypothyroidism. People with Hodgkins disease, other lymphomas, and head or neck cancers are treated with radiation, which can also damage the thyroid.
                
Medications
                
Some drugs can interfere with thyroid hormone production and lead to hypothyroidism, including
                
- amiodarone, a heart medication  - interferon alpha, a cancer medication  - lithium, a bipolar disorder medication  - interleukin-2, a kidney cancer medication

Question: What causes Urinary Tract Infection In Adults ?
Answer: Most UTIs are caused by bacteria that live in the bowel. The bacterium Escherichia coli (E. coli) causes the vast majority of UTIs. Microbes called Chlamydia and Mycoplasma can infect the urethra and reproductive system but not the bladder. Chlamydia and Mycoplasma infections may be sexually transmitted and require treatment of sexual partners.
                
The urinary tract has several systems to prevent infection. The points where the ureters attach to the bladder act like one-way valves to prevent urine from backing up toward the kidneys, and urination washes microbes out of the body. In men, the prostate gland produces secretions that slow bacterial growth. In both sexes, immune defenses also prevent infection. But despite these safeguards, infections still occur. Certain bacteria have a strong ability to attach themselves to the lining of the urinary tract.

Question: What causes Mntriers Disease ?
Answer: Scientists are unsure about what causes Mntriers disease; however, researchers think that most people acquire, rather than inherit, the disease. In extremely rare cases, siblings have developed Mntriers disease as children, suggesting a genetic link.
                
Studies suggest that people with Mntriers disease have stomachs that make abnormally high amounts of a protein called transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-).
                
TGF- binds to and activates a receptor called epidermal growth factor receptor. Growth factors are proteins in the body that tell cells what to do, such as grow larger, change shape, or divide to make more cells. Researchers have not yet found a cause for the overproduction of TGF-.
                
Some studies have found cases of people with Mntriers disease who also had Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection. H. pylori is a bacterium that is a cause of peptic ulcers, or sores on the lining of the stomach or the duodenum, the first part of the small intestine. In these cases, treatment for H. pylori reversed and improved the symptoms of Mntriers disease.1
                
Researchers have linked some cases of Mntriers disease in children to infection with cytomegalovirus (CMV). CMV is one of the herpes viruses. This group of viruses includes the herpes simplex viruses, which cause chickenpox, shingles, and infectious mononucleosis, also known as mono. Most healthy children and adults infected with CMV have no symptoms and may not even know they have an infection. However, in people with a weakened immune system, CMV can cause serious disease, such as retinitis, which can lead to blindness.
                
Researchers are not sure how H. pylori and CMV infections contribute to the development of Mntriers disease.

Question: What causes Inguinal Hernia ?
Answer: The cause of inguinal hernias depends on the type of inguinal hernia.
                
Indirect inguinal hernias. A defect in the abdominal wall that is present at birth causes an indirect inguinal hernia.
                
During the development of the fetus in the womb, the lining of the abdominal cavity forms and extends into the inguinal canal. In males, the spermatic cord and testicles descend out from inside the abdomen and through the abdominal lining to the scrotum through the inguinal canal. Next, the abdominal lining usually closes off the entrance to the inguinal canal a few weeks before or after birth. In females, the ovaries do not descend out from inside the abdomen, and the abdominal lining usually closes a couple of months before birth.1
                
Sometimes the lining of the abdomen does not close as it should, leaving an opening in the abdominal wall at the upper part of the inguinal canal. Fat or part of the small intestine may slide into the inguinal canal through this opening, causing a hernia. In females, the ovaries may also slide into the inguinal canal and cause a hernia.
                
Indirect hernias are the most common type of inguinal hernia.2 Indirect inguinal hernias may appear in 2 to 3 percent of male children; however, they are much less common in female children, occurring in less than 1 percent.3
                
Direct inguinal hernias. Direct inguinal hernias usually occur only in male adults as aging and stress or strain weaken the abdominal muscles around the inguinal canal. Previous surgery in the lower abdomen can also weaken the abdominal muscles.
                
Females rarely form this type of inguinal hernia. In females, the broad ligament of the uterus acts as an additional barrier behind the muscle layer of the lower abdominal wall. The broad ligament of the uterus is a sheet of tissue that supports the uterus and other reproductive organs.

Question: What causes Insulin Resistance and Prediabetes ?
Answer: Although the exact causes of insulin resistance are not completely understood, scientists think the major contributors to insulin resistance are excess weight and physical inactivity.
                
Excess Weight
                
Some experts believe obesity, especially excess fat around the waist, is a primary cause of insulin resistance. Scientists used to think that fat tissue functioned solely as energy storage. However, studies have shown that belly fat produces hormones and other substances that can cause serious health problems such as insulin resistance, high blood pressure, imbalanced cholesterol, and cardiovascular disease (CVD).
                
Belly fat plays a part in developing chronic, or long-lasting, inflammation in the body. Chronic inflammation can damage the body over time, without any signs or symptoms. Scientists have found that complex interactions in fat tissue draw immune cells to the area and trigger low-level chronic inflammation. This inflammation can contribute to the development of insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, and CVD. Studies show that losing the weight can reduce insulin resistance and prevent or delay type 2 diabetes.
                
Physical Inactivity
                
Many studies have shown that physical inactivity is associated with insulin resistance, often leading to type 2 diabetes. In the body, more glucose is used by muscle than other tissues. Normally, active muscles burn their stored glucose for energy and refill their reserves with glucose taken from the bloodstream, keeping blood glucose levels in balance.
                
Studies show that after exercising, muscles become more sensitive to insulin, reversing insulin resistance and lowering blood glucose levels. Exercise also helps muscles absorb more glucose without the need for insulin. The more muscle a body has, the more glucose it can burn to control blood glucose levels.
                
Other Causes
                
Other causes of insulin resistance may include ethnicity; certain diseases; hormones; steroid use; some medications; older age; sleep problems, especially sleep apnea; and cigarette smoking.
                

                
Does sleep matter?   Yes. Studies show that untreated sleep problems, especially sleep apnea, can increase the risk of obesity, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes. Night shift workers may also be at increased risk for these problems. Sleep apnea is a common disorder in which a person's breathing is interrupted during sleep. People may often move out of deep sleep and into light sleep when their breathing pauses or becomes shallow. This results in poor sleep quality that causes problem sleepiness, or excessive tiredness, during the day.   Many people aren't aware of their symptoms and aren't diagnosed. People who think they might have sleep problems should talk with their health care provider.   More information about sleep problems is available from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute at http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/resources/sleep.

Question: What causes Diverticular Disease ?
Answer: Scientists are not certain what causes diverticulosis and diverticular disease. For more than 50 years, the most widely accepted theory was that a low-fiber diet led to diverticulosis and diverticular disease. Diverticulosis and diverticular disease were first noticed in the United States in the early 1900s, around the time processed foods were introduced into the American diet. Consumption of processed foods greatly reduced Americans fiber intake. Diverticulosis and diverticular disease are common in Western and industrialized countriesparticularly the United States, England, and Australiawhere low-fiber diets are common. The condition is rare in Asia and Africa, where most people eat high-fiber diets.1 Two large studies also indicate that a low-fiber diet may increase the chance of developing diverticular disease.2
                
However, a recent study found that a low-fiber diet was not associated with diverticulosis and that a high-fiber diet and more frequent bowel movements may be linked to an increased rather than decreased chance of diverticula.3
                
Other studies have focused on the role of decreased levels of the neurotransmitter serotonin in causing decreased relaxation and increased spasms of the colon muscle. A neurotransmitter is a chemical that helps brain cells communicate with nerve cells. However, more studies are needed in this area.
                
Studies have also found links between diverticular disease and obesity, lack of exercise, smoking, and certain medications including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as aspirin, and steroids.3
                
Scientists agree that with diverticulitis, inflammation may begin when bacteria or stool get caught in a diverticulum. In the colon, inflammation also may be caused by a decrease in healthy bacteria and an increase in disease-causing bacteria. This change in the bacteria may permit chronic inflammation to develop in the colon.
                

                
What is fiber?   Fiber is a substance in foods that comes from plants. Fiber helps soften stool so it moves smoothly through the colon and is easier to pass. Soluble fiber dissolves in water and is found in beans, fruit, and oat products. Insoluble fiber does not dissolve in water and is found in whole-grain products and vegetables. Both kinds of fiber help prevent constipation.   Constipation is a condition in which an adult has fewer than three bowel movements a week or has bowel movements with stools that are hard, dry, and small, making them painful or difficult to pass.   High-fiber foods also have many benefits in preventing and controlling chronic diseases, such as cardiovascular disease, obesity, diabetes, and cancer.2

Question: What causes Intestinal Pseudo-obstruction ?
Answer: Problems with nerves, muscles, or interstitial cells of Cajal cause intestinal pseudo-obstruction. Interstitial cells of Cajal are called pacemaker cells because they set the pace of intestinal contractions. These cells convey messages from nerves to muscles.
                
Problems with nerves, muscles, or interstitial cells of Cajal prevent normal contractions of the intestines and cause problems with the movement of food, fluid, and air through the intestines.
                
Primary or idiopathic intestinal pseudo-obstruction is intestinal pseudo-obstruction that occurs by itself. In some people with primary intestinal pseudo-obstruction, mutations, or changes, in genestraits passed from parent to childcause the condition. However, health care providers do not typically order genetic testing for an intestinal pseudo-obstruction, as they dont commonly recognize gene mutations as a cause.
                
Some people have duplications or deletions of genetic material in the FLNA gene. Researchers believe that these genetic changes may impair the function of a protein, causing problems with the nerve cells in the intestines.1 As a result, the nerves cannot work with the intestinal muscles to produce normal contractions that move food, fluid, and air through the digestive tract. Also, these genetic changes may account for some of the other signs and symptoms that can occur with intestinal pseudo-obstruction, such as bladder symptoms and muscle weakness.
                
A condition called mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy may also cause primary intestinal pseudo-obstruction. In people with this condition, mitochondriastructures in cells that produce energydo not function normally. Mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy can also cause other symptoms, such as problems with nerves in the limbs and changes in the brain.
                
Secondary intestinal pseudo-obstruction develops as a complication of another medical condition. Causes of secondary intestinal pseudo-obstruction include
                
- abdominal or pelvic surgery  - diseases that affect muscles and nerves, such as lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, and Parkinsons disease  - infections  - medications, such as opiates and antidepressants, that affect muscles and nerves  - radiation to the abdomen  - certain cancers, including lung cancer

Question: What causes Acromegaly ?
Answer: Acromegaly is caused by prolonged overproduction of GH by the pituitary gland. The pituitary produces several important hormones that control body functions such as growth and development, reproduction, and metabolism. But hormones never seem to act simply and directly. They usually "cascade" or flow in a series, affecting each other's production or release into the bloodstream.
                
GH is part of a cascade of hormones that, as the name implies, regulates the physical growth of the body. This cascade begins in a part of the brain called the hypothalamus. The hypothalamus makes hormones that regulate the pituitary. One of the hormones in the GH series, or "axis," is growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH), which stimulates the pituitary gland to produce GH.
                
Secretion of GH by the pituitary into the bloodstream stimulates the liver to produce another hormone called insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I). IGF-I is what actually causes tissue growth in the body. High levels of IGF-I, in turn, signal the pituitary to reduce GH production.
                
The hypothalamus makes another hormone called somatostatin, which inhibits GH production and release. Normally, GHRH, somatostatin, GH, and IGF-I levels in the body are tightly regulated by each other and by sleep, exercise, stress, food intake, and blood sugar levels. If the pituitary continues to make GH independent of the normal regulatory mechanisms, the level of IGF-I continues to rise, leading to bone overgrowth and organ enlargement. High levels of IGF-I also cause changes in glucose (sugar) and lipid (fat) metabolism and can lead to diabetes, high blood pressure, and heart disease.
                
Pituitary Tumors
                
In more than 95 percent of people with acromegaly, a benign tumor of the pituitary gland, called an adenoma, produces excess GH. Pituitary tumors are labeled either micro- or macro-adenomas, depending on their size. Most GH-secreting tumors are macro-adenomas, meaning they are larger than 1 centimeter. Depending on their location, these larger tumors may compress surrounding brain structures. For example, a tumor growing upward may affect the optic chiasm-where the optic nerves crossleading to visual problems and vision loss. If the tumor grows to the side, it may enter an area of the brain called the cavernous sinus where there are many nerves, potentially damaging them.
                
Compression of the surrounding normal pituitary tissue can alter production of other hormones. These hormonal shifts can lead to changes in menstruation and breast discharge in women and erectile dysfunction in men. If the tumor affects the part of the pituitary that controls the thyroidanother hormone-producing glandthen thyroid hormones may decrease. Too little thyroid hormone can cause weight gain, fatigue, and hair and skin changes. If the tumor affects the part of the pituitary that controls the adrenal gland, the hormone cortisol may decrease. Too little cortisol can cause weight loss, dizziness, fatigue, low blood pressure, and nausea.
                
Some GH-secreting tumors may also secrete too much of other pituitary hormones. For example, they may produce prolactin, the hormone that stimulates the mammary glands to produce milk. Rarely, adenomas may produce thyroid-stimulating hormone. Doctors should assess all pituitary hormones in people with acromegaly.
                
Rates of GH production and the aggressiveness of the tumor vary greatly among people with adenomas. Some adenomas grow slowly and symptoms of GH excess are often not noticed for many years. Other adenomas grow more rapidly and invade surrounding brain areas or the venous sinuses, which are located near the pituitary gland. Younger patients tend to have more aggressive tumors. Regardless of size, these tumors are always benign.
                
Most pituitary tumors develop spontaneously and are not genetically inherited. They are the result of a genetic alteration in a single pituitary cell, which leads to increased cell division and tumor formation. This genetic change, or mutation, is not present at birth, but happens later in life. The mutation occurs in a gene that regulates the transmission of chemical signals within pituitary cells. It permanently switches on the signal that tells the cell to divide and secrete GH. The events within the cell that cause disordered pituitary cell growth and GH oversecretion currently are the subject of intensive research.
                
Nonpituitary Tumors
                
Rarely, acromegaly is caused not by pituitary tumors but by tumors of the pancreas, lungs, and other parts of the brain. These tumors also lead to excess GH, either because they produce GH themselves or, more frequently, because they produce GHRH, the hormone that stimulates the pituitary to make GH. When these non-pituitary tumors are surgically removed, GH levels fall and the symptoms of acromegaly improve.
                
In patients with GHRH-producing, non-pituitary tumors, the pituitary still may be enlarged and may be mistaken for a tumor. Physicians should carefully analyze all "pituitary tumors" removed from patients with acromegaly so they do not overlook the rare possibility that a tumor elsewhere in the body is causing the disorder.

Question: What causes What I need to know about Cirrhosis ?
Answer: Causes of cirrhosis include
                
- heavy alcohol use  - some drugs, medicines, and harmful chemicals  - infections  - chronic hepatitis B, C, or Dviral infections that attack the liver  - autoimmune hepatitis, which causes the bodys immune system to destroy liver cells  - nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, which is often caused by obesity  - diseases that damage or destroy bile ductstubes that carry bile from the liver
                
Some inherited diseasesdiseases that are passed from parent to childcan cause cirrhosis:
                
- hemochromatosis, a disease that causes iron to collect in the liver  - Wilson disease, a condition that causes copper to build up in the liver  - porphyria, a disorder that affects the skin, bone marrow, and liver

Question: What causes Gallstones ?
Answer: Imbalances in the substances that make up bile cause gallstones. Gallstones may form if bile contains too much cholesterol, too much bilirubin, or not enough bile salts. Scientists do not fully understand why these imbalances occur. Gallstones also may form if the gallbladder does not empty completely or often enough.
                
The two types of gallstones are cholesterol and pigment stones:
                
- Cholesterol stones, usually yellow-green in color, consist primarily of hardened cholesterol. In the United States, more than 80 percent of gallstones are cholesterol stones.1  - Pigment stones, dark in color, are made of bilirubin.

Question: What causes Microscopic Colitis: Collagenous Colitis and Lymphocytic Colitis ?
Answer: The exact cause of microscopic colitis is unknown. Several factors may play a role in causing microscopic colitis. However, most scientists believe that microscopic colitis results from an abnormal immune-system response to bacteria that normally live in the colon. Scientists have proposed other causes, including
                
- autoimmune diseases  - medications  - infections  - genetic factors  - bile acid malabsorption
                
Autoimmune Diseases
                
Sometimes people with microscopic colitis also have autoimmune diseasesdisorders in which the bodys immune system attacks the bodys own cells and organs. Autoimmune diseases associated with microscopic colitis include
                
- celiac diseasea condition in which people cannot tolerate gluten because it damages the lining of the small intestine and prevents absorption of nutrients. Gluten is a protein found in wheat, rye, and barley.  - thyroid diseases such as      - Hashimotos diseasea form of chronic, or long lasting, inflammation of the thyroid.    - Graves diseasea disease that causes hyperthyroidism. Hyperthyroidism is a disorder that occurs when the thyroid gland makes more thyroid hormone than the body needs.    - rheumatoid arthritisa disease that causes pain, swelling, stiffness, and loss of function in the joints when the immune system attacks the membrane lining the joints.  - psoriasisa skin disease that causes thick, red skin with flaky, silver-white patches called scales.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics:
                
- Celiac Disease  - Hashimotos Disease   - Graves Disease
                
Medications
                
Researchers have not found that medications cause microscopic colitis. However, they have found links between microscopic colitis and certain medications, most commonly
                
- nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen  - lansoprazole (Prevacid)  - acarbose (Prandase, Precose)  - ranitidine (Tritec, Zantac)  - sertraline (Zoloft)  - ticlopidine (Ticlid)
                
Other medications linked to microscopic colitis include
                
- carbamazepine  - clozapine (Clozaril, FazaClo)  - dexlansoprazole (Kapidex, Dexilant)  - entacapone (Comtan)  - esomeprazole (Nexium)  - flutamide (Eulexin)  - lisinopril (Prinivil, Zestril)  - omeprazole (Prilosec)  - pantoprazole (Protonix)  - paroxetine (Paxil, Pexeva)  - rabeprazole (AcipHex)  - simvastatin (Zocor)  - vinorelbine (Navelbine)
                
Infections
                
Bacteria. Some people get microscopic colitis after an infection with certain harmful bacteria. Harmful bacteria may produce toxins that irritate the lining of the colon.
                
Viruses. Some scientists believe that viral infections that cause inflammation in the GI tract may play a role in causing microscopic colitis.
                
Genetic Factors
                
Some scientists believe that genetic factors may play a role in microscopic colitis. Although researchers have not yet found a gene unique to microscopic colitis, scientists have linked dozens of genes to other types of inflammatory bowel disease, including
                
- Crohns diseasea disorder that causes inflammation and irritation of any part of the GI tract  - ulcerative colitisa chronic disease that causes inflammation and ulcers in the inner lining of the large intestine
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics:
                
- Crohns Disease  - Ulcerative Colitis
                
Bile Acid Malabsorption
                
Some scientists believe that bile acid malabsorption plays a role in microscopic colitis. Bile acid malabsorption is the intestines inability to completely reabsorb bile acidsacids made by the liver that work with bile to break down fats. Bile is a fluid made by the liver that carries toxins and waste products out of the body and helps the body digest fats. Bile acids that reach the colon can lead to diarrhea.

Question: What causes Fecal Incontinence ?
Answer: Fecal incontinence has many causes, including
                
- diarrhea  - constipation  - muscle damage or weakness  - nerve damage  - loss of stretch in the rectum  - childbirth by vaginal delivery  - hemorrhoids and rectal prolapse  - rectocele  - inactivity
                
Diarrhea
                
Diarrhea can cause fecal incontinence. Loose stools fill the rectum quickly and are more difficult to hold than solid stools. Diarrhea increases the chance of not reaching a bathroom in time.
                
Constipation
                
Constipation can lead to large, hard stools that stretch the rectum and cause the internal sphincter muscles to relax by reflex. Watery stool builds up behind the hard stool and may leak out around the hard stool, leading to fecal incontinence.
                
The type of constipation that is most likely to lead to fecal incontinence occurs when people are unable to relax their external sphincter and pelvic floor muscles when straining to have a bowel movement, often mistakenly squeezing these muscles instead of relaxing them. This squeezing makes it difficult to pass stool and may lead to a large amount of stool in the rectum. This type of constipation, called dyssynergic defecation or disordered defecation, is a result of faulty learning. For example, children or adults who have pain when having a bowel movement may unconsciously learn to squeeze their muscles to delay the bowel movement and avoid pain.
                
Muscle Damage or Weakness
                
Injury to one or both of the sphincter muscles can cause fecal incontinence. If these muscles, called the external and internal anal sphincter muscles, are damaged or weakened, they may not be strong enough to keep the anus closed and prevent stool from leaking.
                
Trauma, childbirth injuries, cancer surgery, and hemorrhoid surgery are possible causes of injury to the sphincters. Hemorrhoids are swollen blood vessels in and around the anus and lower rectum.
                
Nerve Damage
                
The anal sphincter muscles wont open and close properly if the nerves that control them are damaged. Likewise, if the nerves that sense stool in the rectum are damaged, a person may not feel the urge to go to the bathroom. Both types of nerve damage can lead to fecal incontinence. Possible sources of nerve damage are childbirth; a long-term habit of straining to pass stool; spinal cord injury; and diseases, such as diabetes and multiple sclerosis, that affect the nerves that go to the sphincter muscles and rectum. Brain injuries from stroke, head trauma, or certain diseases can also cause fecal incontinence.
                
Loss of Stretch in the Rectum
                
Normally, the rectum stretches to hold stool until a person has a bowel movement. Rectal surgery, radiation treatment, and inflammatory bowel diseaseschronic disorders that cause irritation and sores on the lining of the digestive systemcan cause the rectal walls to become stiff. The rectum then cant stretch as much to hold stool, increasing the risk of fecal incontinence.
                
Childbirth by Vaginal Delivery
                
Childbirth sometimes causes injuries to muscles and nerves in the pelvic floor. The risk is greater if forceps are used to help deliver the baby or if an episiotomya cut in the vaginal area to prevent the babys head from tearing the vagina during birthis performed. Fecal incontinence related to childbirth can appear soon after delivery or many years later.
                
Hemorrhoids and Rectal Prolapse
                
External hemorrhoids, which develop under the skin around the anus, can prevent the anal sphincter muscles from closing completely. Rectal prolapse, a condition that causes the rectum to drop down through the anus, can also prevent the anal sphincter muscles from closing well enough to prevent leakage. Small amounts of mucus or liquid stool can then leak through the anus.
                
Rectocele
                
Rectocele is a condition that causes the rectum to protrude through the vagina. Rectocele can happen when the thin layer of muscles separating the rectum from the vagina becomes weak. For women with rectocele, straining to have a bowel movement may be less effective because rectocele reduces the amount of downward force through the anus. The result may be retention of stool in the rectum. More research is needed to be sure rectocele increases the risk of fecal incontinence.
                
Inactivity
                
People who are inactive, especially those who spend many hours a day sitting or lying down, have an increased risk of retaining a large amount of stool in the rectum. Liquid stool can then leak around the more solid stool. Frail, older adults are most likely to develop constipation-related fecal incontinence for this reason.

Question: What causes What I need to know about Diverticular Disease ?
Answer: Doctors are not sure what causes diverticular disease. Many think a diet low in fiber is the main cause. Fiber is a part of food that your body cannot digest. It is found in many fruits and vegetables. Fiber stays in the colon and absorbs water, which makes bowel movements easier to pass. Diets low in fiber may cause constipation, which occurs when stools are hard and difficult to pass. Constipation causes your muscles to strain when you pass stool. Straining may cause diverticula to form in the colon. If stool or bacteria get caught in the pouches, diverticulitis can occur.

Question: What causes What I need to know about Hirschsprung Disease ?
Answer: People with HD have constipation because they lack nerve cells in a part or all of the large intestine. The nerve cells signal muscles in the large intestine to push stool toward the anus. Without a signal to push stool along, stool will remain in the large intestine.
                
How severe HD is depends on how much of the large intestine is affected. Short-segment HD means only the last part of the large intestine lacks nerve cells. Long-segment HD means most or all of the large intestine, and sometimes the last part of the small intestine, lacks nerve cells.
                
In a person with HD, stool moves through the large intestine until it reaches the part lacking nerve cells. At that point, the stool moves slowly or stops, causing an intestinal obstruction.

Question: What causes What I need to know about Hirschsprung Disease ?
Answer: Before birth, a childs nerve cells normally grow along the intestines in the direction of the anus. With HD, the nerve cells stop growing too soon. Why the nerve cells stop growing is unclear. Some HD is inherited, meaning it is passed from parent to child through genes. HD is not caused by anything a mother did while pregnant.

Question: What causes Hyperthyroidism ?
Answer: Hyperthyroidism has several causes, including
                
- Graves disease  - thyroid nodules  - thyroiditis, or inflammation of the thyroid  - consuming too much iodine  - overmedicating with synthetic thyroid hormone, which is used to treat underactive thyroid
                
Rarely, hyperthyroidism is caused by a pituitary adenoma, which is a noncancerous tumor of the pituitary gland. In this case, hyperthyroidism is due to too much TSH.
                
Graves Disease
                
Graves disease, also known as toxic diffuse goiter, is the most common cause of hyperthyroidism in the United States. Graves disease is an autoimmune disorder. Normally, the immune system protects the body from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. But in autoimmune diseases, the immune system attacks the bodys own cells and organs.
                
With Graves disease, the immune system makes an antibody called thyroid stimulating immunoglobulin (TSI) that attaches to thyroid cells. TSI mimics the action of TSH and stimulates the thyroid to make too much thyroid hormone.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Graves' disease.
                
Thyroid Nodules
                
Thyroid nodules, also called adenomas, are lumps in the thyroid. Thyroid nodules are common and usually noncancerous. About 3 to 7 percent of the U.S. population has them.2 However, nodules may become overactive and produce too much hormone.
                
A single overactive nodule is called a toxic adenoma. Multiple overactive nodules are called toxic multinodular goiter. Often found in older adults, toxic multinodular goiter can produce a large amount of excess thyroid hormone.
                
Thyroiditis
                
Thyroiditis is an inflammation of the thyroid that causes stored thyroid hormone to leak out of the thyroid gland. At first, the leakage raises hormone levels in the blood, leading to hyperthyroidism that lasts for 1 or 2 months. Most people then develop hypothyroidismwhen thyroid hormone levels are too lowbefore the thyroid is completely healed.
                
Several types of thyroiditis can cause hyperthyroidism followed by hypothyroidism:
                
- Subacute thyroiditis. This condition involves painful inflammation and enlargement of the thyroid. Experts are not sure what causes subacute thyroiditis, but it may be related to a viral or bacterial infection. The condition usually goes away on its own in a few months.  - Postpartum thyroiditis. This type of thyroiditis develops after a woman gives birth. For more information, see the section titled What happens with pregnancy and thyroid conditions?  - Silent thyroiditis. This type of thyroiditis is called silent because it is painless, as is postpartum thyroiditis, even though the thyroid may be enlarged. Like postpartum thyroiditis, silent thyroiditis is probably an autoimmune condition and sometimes develops into permanent hypothyroidism.
                
Consuming Too Much Iodine
                
The thyroid uses iodine to make thyroid hormone, so the amount of iodine consumed influences the amount of thyroid hormone the thyroid makes. In some people, consuming large amounts of iodine may cause the thyroid to make excess thyroid hormone.
                
Sometimes significant amounts of iodine are contained in medicationssuch as amiodarone, which is used to treat heart problemsor in supplements containing seaweed. Some cough syrups also contain large amounts of iodine. See Eating, Diet, and Nutrition for more information on iodine.
                
Overmedicating with Synthetic Thyroid Hormone
                
Some people who take synthetic thyroid hormone for hypothyroidism may take too much. People who take synthetic thyroid hormone should see their health care provider at least once a year to have their thyroid hormone levels checked and follow the health care providers instructions about the dosage.
                
Some other medications may also interact with synthetic thyroid hormone to raise hormone levels in the blood. People who take synthetic thyroid hormone should ask their health care provider about interactions when starting new medications.

Question: What causes Polycystic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: A gene mutation, or defect, causes polycystic kidney disease. Genes provide instructions for making proteins in the body. A gene mutation is a permanent change in the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequence that makes up a gene. In most cases of PKD, a person inherits the gene mutation, meaning a parent passes it on in his or her genes. In the remaining cases, the gene mutation develops spontaneously. In spontaneous cases, neither parent carries a copy of the mutated gene.
                
Researchers have found three different gene mutations associated with PKD. Two of the genes are associated with autosomal dominant PKD. The third gene is associated with autosomal recessive PKD. Gene mutations that cause PKD affect proteins that play a role in kidney development.
                

                
Genetic Disorders   Each cell contains thousands of genes that provide the instructions for making proteins for growth and repair of the body. If a gene has a mutation, the protein made by that gene may not function properly, which sometimes creates a genetic disorder. Not all gene mutations cause a disorder.   People inherit two copies of most genes; one copy from each parent. A genetic disorder occurs when one or both parents pass a mutated gene to a child at conception. A genetic disorder can also occur through a spontaneous gene mutation, meaning neither parent carries a copy of the mutated gene. Once a spontaneous gene mutation has occurred, a person can pass it to his or her children.   Read more about genes and genetic conditions in the U.S. National Library of Medicines (NLMs) Genetics Home Reference.

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Type 1 diabetes is caused by a lack of insulin due to the destruction of insulin-producing beta cells in the pancreas. In type 1 diabetesan autoimmune diseasethe bodys immune system attacks and destroys the beta cells. Normally, the immune system protects the body from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. But in autoimmune diseases, the immune system attacks the bodys own cells. In type 1 diabetes, beta cell destruction may take place over several years, but symptoms of the disease usually develop over a short period of time.
                
Type 1 diabetes typically occurs in children and young adults, though it can appear at any age. In the past, type 1 diabetes was called juvenile diabetes or insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
                
Latent autoimmune diabetes in adults (LADA) may be a slowly developing kind of type 1 diabetes. Diagnosis usually occurs after age 30. In LADA, as in type 1 diabetes, the bodys immune system destroys the beta cells. At the time of diagnosis, people with LADA may still produce their own insulin, but eventually most will need insulin shots or an insulin pump to control blood glucose levels.
                
Genetic Susceptibility
                
Heredity plays an important part in determining who is likely to develop type 1 diabetes. Genes are passed down from biological parent to child. Genes carry instructions for making proteins that are needed for the bodys cells to function. Many genes, as well as interactions among genes, are thought to influence susceptibility to and protection from type 1 diabetes. The key genes may vary in different population groups. Variations in genes that affect more than 1 percent of a population group are called gene variants.
                
Certain gene variants that carry instructions for making proteins called human leukocyte antigens (HLAs) on white blood cells are linked to the risk of developing type 1 diabetes. The proteins produced by HLA genes help determine whether the immune system recognizes a cell as part of the body or as foreign material. Some combinations of HLA gene variants predict that a person will be at higher risk for type 1 diabetes, while other combinations are protective or have no effect on risk.
                
While HLA genes are the major risk genes for type 1 diabetes, many additional risk genes or gene regions have been found. Not only can these genes help identify people at risk for type 1 diabetes, but they also provide important clues to help scientists better understand how the disease develops and identify potential targets for therapy and prevention.
                
Genetic testing can show what types of HLA genes a person carries and can reveal other genes linked to diabetes. However, most genetic testing is done in a research setting and is not yet available to individuals. Scientists are studying how the results of genetic testing can be used to improve type 1 diabetes prevention or treatment.
                
Autoimmune Destruction of Beta Cells
                
In type 1 diabetes, white blood cells called T cells attack and destroy beta cells. The process begins well before diabetes symptoms appear and continues after diagnosis. Often, type 1 diabetes is not diagnosed until most beta cells have already been destroyed. At this point, a person needs daily insulin treatment to survive. Finding ways to modify or stop this autoimmune process and preserve beta cell function is a major focus of current scientific research.
                
Recent research suggests insulin itself may be a key trigger of the immune attack on beta cells. The immune systems of people who are susceptible to developing type 1 diabetes respond to insulin as if it were a foreign substance, or antigen. To combat antigens, the body makes proteins called antibodies. Antibodies to insulin and other proteins produced by beta cells are found in people with type 1 diabetes. Researchers test for these antibodies to help identify people at increased risk of developing the disease. Testing the types and levels of antibodies in the blood can help determine whether a person has type 1 diabetes, LADA, or another type of diabetes.
                
Environmental Factors
                
Environmental factors, such as foods, viruses, and toxins, may play a role in the development of type 1 diabetes, but the exact nature of their role has not been determined. Some theories suggest that environmental factors trigger the autoimmune destruction of beta cells in people with a genetic susceptibility to diabetes. Other theories suggest that environmental factors play an ongoing role in diabetes, even after diagnosis.
                
Viruses and infections. A virus cannot cause diabetes on its own, but people are sometimes diagnosed with type 1 diabetes during or after a viral infection, suggesting a link between the two. Also, the onset of type 1 diabetes occurs more frequently during the winter when viral infections are more common. Viruses possibly associated with type 1 diabetes include coxsackievirus B, cytomegalovirus, adenovirus, rubella, and mumps. Scientists have described several ways these viruses may damage or destroy beta cells or possibly trigger an autoimmune response in susceptible people. For example, anti-islet antibodies have been found in patients with congenital rubella syndrome, and cytomegalovirus has been associated with significant beta cell damage and acute pancreatitisinflammation of the pancreas. Scientists are trying to identify a virus that can cause type 1 diabetes so that a vaccine might be developed to prevent the disease.
                
Infant feeding practices. Some studies have suggested that dietary factors may raise or lower the risk of developing type 1 diabetes. For example, breastfed infants and infants receiving vitamin D supplements may have a reduced risk of developing type 1 diabetes, while early exposure to cows milk and cereal proteins may increase risk. More research is needed to clarify how infant nutrition affects the risk for type 1 diabetes.
                
Read more in the Centers for Disease Control and Preventions (CDCs) publication  National Diabetes Statistics Report, 2014 at  www.cdc.gov for information about research studies related to type 1 diabetes.

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Type 2 diabetesthe most common form of diabetesis caused by a combination of factors, including insulin resistance, a condition in which the bodys muscle, fat, and liver cells do not use insulin effectively. Type 2 diabetes develops when the body can no longer produce enough insulin to compensate for the impaired ability to use insulin. Symptoms of type 2 diabetes may develop gradually and can be subtle; some people with type 2 diabetes remain undiagnosed for years.
                
Type 2 diabetes develops most often in middle-aged and older people who are also overweight or obese. The disease, once rare in youth, is becoming more common in overweight and obese children and adolescents. Scientists think genetic susceptibility and environmental factors are the most likely triggers of type 2 diabetes.
                
Genetic Susceptibility
                
Genes play a significant part in susceptibility to type 2 diabetes. Having certain genes or combinations of genes may increase or decrease a persons risk for developing the disease. The role of genes is suggested by the high rate of type 2 diabetes in families and identical twins and wide variations in diabetes prevalence by ethnicity. Type 2 diabetes occurs more frequently in African Americans, Alaska Natives, American Indians, Hispanics/Latinos, and some Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islander Americans than it does in non-Hispanic whites.
                
Recent studies have combined genetic data from large numbers of people, accelerating the pace of gene discovery. Though scientists have now identified many gene variants that increase susceptibility to type 2 diabetes, the majority have yet to be discovered. The known genes appear to affect insulin production rather than insulin resistance. Researchers are working to identify additional gene variants and to learn how they interact with one another and with environmental factors to cause diabetes.
                
Studies have shown that variants of the TCF7L2 gene increase susceptibility to type 2 diabetes. For people who inherit two copies of the variants, the risk of developing type 2 diabetes is about 80 percent higher than for those who do not carry the gene variant.1 However, even in those with the variant, diet and physical activity leading to weight loss help delay diabetes, according to the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP), a major clinical trial involving people at high risk.
                
Genes can also increase the risk of diabetes by increasing a persons tendency to become overweight or obese. One theory, known as the thrifty gene hypothesis, suggests certain genes increase the efficiency of metabolism to extract energy from food and store the energy for later use. This survival trait was advantageous for populations whose food supplies were scarce or unpredictable and could help keep people alive during famine. In modern times, however, when high-calorie foods are plentiful, such a trait can promote obesity and type 2 diabetes.
                
Obesity and Physical Inactivity
                
Physical inactivity and obesity are strongly associated with the development of type 2 diabetes. People who are genetically susceptible to type 2 diabetes are more vulnerable when these risk factors are present.
                
An imbalance between caloric intake and physical activity can lead to obesity, which causes insulin resistance and is common in people with type 2 diabetes. Central obesity, in which a person has excess abdominal fat, is a major risk factor not only for insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes but also for heart and blood vessel disease, also called cardiovascular disease (CVD). This excess belly fat produces hormones and other substances that can cause harmful, chronic effects in the body such as damage to blood vessels.
                
The DPP and other studies show that millions of people can lower their risk for type 2 diabetes by making lifestyle changes and losing weight. The DPP proved that people with prediabetesat high risk of developing type 2 diabetescould sharply lower their risk by losing weight through regular physical activity and a diet low in fat and calories. In 2009, a follow-up study of DPP participantsthe Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study (DPPOS)showed that the benefits of weight loss lasted for at least 10 years after the original study began.2
                
Read more about the DPP, funded under National Institutes of Health (NIH) clinical trial number NCT00004992, and the DPPOS, funded under NIH clinical trial number NCT00038727 in  Diabetes Prevention Program.
                
Insulin Resistance
                
Insulin resistance is a common condition in people who are overweight or obese, have excess abdominal fat, and are not physically active. Muscle, fat, and liver cells stop responding properly to insulin, forcing the pancreas to compensate by producing extra insulin. As long as beta cells are able to produce enough insulin, blood glucose levels stay in the normal range. But when insulin production falters because of beta cell dysfunction, glucose levels rise, leading to prediabetes or diabetes.
                
Abnormal Glucose Production by the Liver
                
In some people with diabetes, an abnormal increase in glucose production by the liver also contributes to high blood glucose levels. Normally, the pancreas releases the hormone glucagon when blood glucose and insulin levels are low. Glucagon stimulates the liver to produce glucose and release it into the bloodstream. But when blood glucose and insulin levels are high after a meal, glucagon levels drop, and the liver stores excess glucose for later, when it is needed. For reasons not completely understood, in many people with diabetes, glucagon levels stay higher than needed. High glucagon levels cause the liver to produce unneeded glucose, which contributes to high blood glucose levels. Metformin, the most commonly used drug to treat type 2 diabetes, reduces glucose production by the liver.
                
The Roles of Insulin and Glucagon in Normal Blood Glucose Regulation
                
A healthy persons body keeps blood glucose levels in a normal range through several complex mechanisms. Insulin and glucagon, two hormones made in the pancreas, help regulate blood glucose levels:
                
- Insulin, made by beta cells, lowers elevated blood glucose levels.  - Glucagon, made by alpha cells, raises low blood glucose levels.
                
- Insulin helps muscle, fat, and liver cells absorb glucose from the bloodstream, lowering blood glucose levels.  - Insulin stimulates the liver and muscle tissue to store excess glucose. The stored form of glucose is called glycogen.  - Insulin also lowers blood glucose levels by reducing glucose production in the liver.
                
- Glucagon signals the liver and muscle tissue to break down glycogen into glucose, which enters the bloodstream and raises blood glucose levels.  - If the body needs more glucose, glucagon stimulates the liver to make glucose from amino acids.
                
Metabolic Syndrome
                
Metabolic syndrome, also called insulin resistance syndrome, refers to a group of conditions common in people with insulin resistance, including
                
- higher than normal blood glucose levels  - increased waist size due to excess abdominal fat  - high blood pressure  - abnormal levels of cholesterol and triglycerides in the blood
                
Cell Signaling and Regulation
                
Cells communicate through a complex network of molecular signaling pathways. For example, on cell surfaces, insulin receptor molecules capture, or bind, insulin molecules circulating in the bloodstream. This interaction between insulin and its receptor prompts the biochemical signals that enable the cells to absorb glucose from the blood and use it for energy.
                
Problems in cell signaling systems can set off a chain reaction that leads to diabetes or other diseases. Many studies have focused on how insulin signals cells to communicate and regulate action. Researchers have identified proteins and pathways that transmit the insulin signal and have mapped interactions between insulin and body tissues, including the way insulin helps the liver control blood glucose levels. Researchers have also found that key signals also come from fat cells, which produce substances that cause inflammation and insulin resistance.
                
This work holds the key to combating insulin resistance and diabetes. As scientists learn more about cell signaling systems involved in glucose regulation, they will have more opportunities to develop effective treatments.
                
Beta Cell Dysfunction
                
Scientists think beta cell dysfunction is a key contributor to type 2 diabetes. Beta cell impairment can cause inadequate or abnormal patterns of insulin release. Also, beta cells may be damaged by high blood glucose itself, a condition called glucose toxicity.
                
Scientists have not determined the causes of beta cell dysfunction in most cases. Single gene defects lead to specific forms of diabetes called maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY). The genes involved regulate insulin production in the beta cells. Although these forms of diabetes are rare, they provide clues as to how beta cell function may be affected by key regulatory factors. Other gene variants are involved in determining the number and function of beta cells. But these variants account for only a small percentage of type 2 diabetes cases. Malnutrition early in life is also being investigated as a cause of beta cell dysfunction. The metabolic environment of the developing fetus may also create a predisposition for diabetes later in life.
                
Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
                
People who develop type 2 diabetes are more likely to have the following characteristics:
                
- age 45 or older  - overweight or obese  - physically inactive  - parent or sibling with diabetes  - family background that is African American, Alaska Native, American Indian, Asian American, Hispanic/Latino, or Pacific Islander American  - history of giving birth to a baby weighing more than 9 pounds  - history of gestational diabetes  - high blood pressure140/90 or aboveor being treated for high blood pressure  - high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good, cholesterol below 35 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL), or a triglyceride level above 250 mg/dL  - polycystic ovary syndrome, also called PCOS  - prediabetesan A1C level of 5.7 to 6.4 percent; a fasting plasma glucose test result of 100125 mg/dL, called impaired fasting glucose; or a 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test result of 140199, called impaired glucose tolerance  - acanthosis nigricans, a condition associated with insulin resistance, characterized by a dark, velvety rash around the neck or armpits  - history of CVD
                
The American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends that testing to detect prediabetes and type 2 diabetes be considered in adults who are overweight or obese and have one or more additional risk factors for diabetes. In adults without these risk factors, testing should begin at age 45.

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Insulin Resistance and Beta Cell Dysfunction
                
Hormones produced by the placenta and other pregnancy-related factors contribute to insulin resistance, which occurs in all women during late pregnancy. Insulin resistance increases the amount of insulin needed to control blood glucose levels. If the pancreas cant produce enough insulin due to beta cell dysfunction, gestational diabetes occurs.
                
As with type 2 diabetes, excess weight is linked to gestational diabetes. Overweight or obese women are at particularly high risk for gestational diabetes because they start pregnancy with a higher need for insulin due to insulin resistance. Excessive weight gain during pregnancy may also increase risk.
                
Family History
                
Having a family history of diabetes is also a risk factor for gestational diabetes, suggesting that genes play a role in its development. Genetics may also explain why the disorder occurs more frequently in African Americans, American Indians, and Hispanics/Latinos. Many gene variants or combinations of variants may increase a womans risk for developing gestational diabetes. Studies have found several gene variants associated with gestational diabetes, but these variants account for only a small fraction of women with gestational diabetes.
                
Future Risk of Type 2 Diabetes
                
Because a womans hormones usually return to normal levels soon after giving birth, gestational diabetes disappears in most women after delivery. However, women who have gestational diabetes are more likely to develop gestational diabetes with future pregnancies and develop type 2 diabetes.3 Women with gestational diabetes should be tested for persistent diabetes 6 to 12 weeks after delivery and at least every 3 years thereafter.
                
Also, exposure to high glucose levels during gestation increases a childs risk for becoming overweight or obese and for developing type 2 diabetes later on. The result may be a cycle of diabetes affecting multiple generations in a family. For both mother and child, maintaining a healthy body weight and being physically active may help prevent type 2 diabetes.

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Other types of diabetes have a variety of possible causes.
                
Genetic Mutations Affecting Beta Cells, Insulin, and Insulin Action
                
Some relatively uncommon forms of diabetes known as monogenic diabetes are caused by mutations, or changes, in a single gene. These mutations are usually inherited, but sometimes the gene mutation occurs spontaneously. Most of these gene mutations cause diabetes by reducing beta cells ability to produce insulin.
                
The most common types of monogenic diabetes are neonatal diabetes mellitus (NDM) and MODY. NDM occurs in the first 6 months of life. MODY is usually found during adolescence or early adulthood but sometimes is not diagnosed until later in life. More information about NDM and MODY is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Monogenic Forms of Diabetes.
                
Other rare genetic mutations can cause diabetes by damaging the quality of insulin the body produces or by causing abnormalities in insulin receptors.
                
Other Genetic Diseases
                
Diabetes occurs in people with Down syndrome, Klinefelter syndrome, and Turner syndrome at higher rates than the general population. Scientists are investigating whether genes that may predispose people to genetic syndromes also predispose them to diabetes.
                
The genetic disorders cystic fibrosis and hemochromatosis are linked to diabetes. Cystic fibrosis produces abnormally thick mucus, which blocks the pancreas. The risk of diabetes increases with age in people with cystic fibrosis. Hemochromatosis causes the body to store too much iron. If the disorder is not treated, iron can build up in and damage the pancreas and other organs.
                
Damage to or Removal of the Pancreas
                
Pancreatitis, cancer, and trauma can all harm the pancreatic beta cells or impair insulin production, thus causing diabetes. If the damaged pancreas is removed, diabetes will occur due to the loss of the beta cells.
                
Endocrine Diseases
                
Endocrine diseases affect organs that produce hormones. Cushings syndrome and acromegaly are examples of hormonal disorders that can cause prediabetes and diabetes by inducing insulin resistance. Cushings syndrome is marked by excessive production of cortisolsometimes called the stress hormone. Acromegaly occurs when the body produces too much growth hormone. Glucagonoma, a rare tumor of the pancreas, can also cause diabetes. The tumor causes the body to produce too much glucagon. Hyperthyroidism, a disorder that occurs when the thyroid gland produces too much thyroid hormone, can also cause elevated blood glucose levels.
                
Autoimmune Disorders
                
Rare disorders characterized by antibodies that disrupt insulin action can lead to diabetes. This kind of diabetes is often associated with other autoimmune disorders such as lupus erythematosus. Another rare autoimmune disorder called stiff-man syndrome is associated with antibodies that attack the beta cells, similar to type 1 diabetes.
                
Medications and Chemical Toxins
                
Some medications, such as nicotinic acid and certain types of diuretics, anti-seizure drugs, psychiatric drugs, and drugs to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), can impair beta cells or disrupt insulin action. Pentamidine, a drug prescribed to treat a type of pneumonia, can increase the risk of pancreatitis, beta cell damage, and diabetes. Also, glucocorticoidssteroid hormones that are chemically similar to naturally produced cortisolmay impair insulin action. Glucocorticoids are used to treat inflammatory illnesses such as rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, lupus, and ulcerative colitis.
                
Many chemical toxins can damage or destroy beta cells in animals, but only a few have been linked to diabetes in humans. For example, dioxina contaminant of the herbicide Agent Orange, used during the Vietnam Warmay be linked to the development of type 2 diabetes. In 2000, based on a report from the Institute of Medicine, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) added diabetes to the list of conditions for which Vietnam veterans are eligible for disability compensation. Also, a chemical in a rat poison no longer in use has been shown to cause diabetes if ingested. Some studies suggest a high intake of nitrogen-containing chemicals such as nitrates and nitrites might increase the risk of diabetes. Arsenic has also been studied for possible links to diabetes.
                
Lipodystrophy
                
Lipodystrophy is a condition in which fat tissue is lost or redistributed in the body. The condition is associated with insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Other types of diabetes have a variety of possible causes.
                
Genetic Mutations Affecting Beta Cells, Insulin, and Insulin Action
                
Some relatively uncommon forms of diabetes known as monogenic diabetes are caused by mutations, or changes, in a single gene. These mutations are usually inherited, but sometimes the gene mutation occurs spontaneously. Most of these gene mutations cause diabetes by reducing beta cells ability to produce insulin.
                
The most common types of monogenic diabetes are neonatal diabetes mellitus (NDM) and MODY. NDM occurs in the first 6 months of life. MODY is usually found during adolescence or early adulthood but sometimes is not diagnosed until later in life. More information about NDM and MODY is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Monogenic Forms of Diabetes.
                
Other rare genetic mutations can cause diabetes by damaging the quality of insulin the body produces or by causing abnormalities in insulin receptors.
                
Other Genetic Diseases
                
Diabetes occurs in people with Down syndrome, Klinefelter syndrome, and Turner syndrome at higher rates than the general population. Scientists are investigating whether genes that may predispose people to genetic syndromes also predispose them to diabetes.
                
The genetic disorders cystic fibrosis and hemochromatosis are linked to diabetes. Cystic fibrosis produces abnormally thick mucus, which blocks the pancreas. The risk of diabetes increases with age in people with cystic fibrosis. Hemochromatosis causes the body to store too much iron. If the disorder is not treated, iron can build up in and damage the pancreas and other organs.
                
Damage to or Removal of the Pancreas
                
Pancreatitis, cancer, and trauma can all harm the pancreatic beta cells or impair insulin production, thus causing diabetes. If the damaged pancreas is removed, diabetes will occur due to the loss of the beta cells.
                
Endocrine Diseases
                
Endocrine diseases affect organs that produce hormones. Cushings syndrome and acromegaly are examples of hormonal disorders that can cause prediabetes and diabetes by inducing insulin resistance. Cushings syndrome is marked by excessive production of cortisolsometimes called the stress hormone. Acromegaly occurs when the body produces too much growth hormone. Glucagonoma, a rare tumor of the pancreas, can also cause diabetes. The tumor causes the body to produce too much glucagon. Hyperthyroidism, a disorder that occurs when the thyroid gland produces too much thyroid hormone, can also cause elevated blood glucose levels.
                
Autoimmune Disorders
                
Rare disorders characterized by antibodies that disrupt insulin action can lead to diabetes. This kind of diabetes is often associated with other autoimmune disorders such as lupus erythematosus. Another rare autoimmune disorder called stiff-man syndrome is associated with antibodies that attack the beta cells, similar to type 1 diabetes.
                
Medications and Chemical Toxins
                
Some medications, such as nicotinic acid and certain types of diuretics, anti-seizure drugs, psychiatric drugs, and drugs to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), can impair beta cells or disrupt insulin action. Pentamidine, a drug prescribed to treat a type of pneumonia, can increase the risk of pancreatitis, beta cell damage, and diabetes. Also, glucocorticoidssteroid hormones that are chemically similar to naturally produced cortisolmay impair insulin action. Glucocorticoids are used to treat inflammatory illnesses such as rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, lupus, and ulcerative colitis.
                
Many chemical toxins can damage or destroy beta cells in animals, but only a few have been linked to diabetes in humans. For example, dioxina contaminant of the herbicide Agent Orange, used during the Vietnam Warmay be linked to the development of type 2 diabetes. In 2000, based on a report from the Institute of Medicine, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) added diabetes to the list of conditions for which Vietnam veterans are eligible for disability compensation. Also, a chemical in a rat poison no longer in use has been shown to cause diabetes if ingested. Some studies suggest a high intake of nitrogen-containing chemicals such as nitrates and nitrites might increase the risk of diabetes. Arsenic has also been studied for possible links to diabetes.
                
Lipodystrophy
                
Lipodystrophy is a condition in which fat tissue is lost or redistributed in the body. The condition is associated with insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.

Question: What causes Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome ?
Answer: While idiopathic, or unknown, diseases are the most common cause of primary childhood nephrotic syndrome, researchers have linked certain diseases and some specific genetic changes that damage the kidneys with primary childhood nephrotic syndrome.
                
The cause of secondary childhood nephrotic syndrome is an underlying disease or infection. Called a primary illness, its this underlying disease or infection that causes changes in the kidney function that can result in secondary childhood nephrotic syndrome.
                
Congenital diseasesdiseases that are present at birthcan also cause childhood nephrotic syndrome.
                
Primary Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome
                
The following diseases are different types of idiopathic childhood nephrotic syndrome:
                
- Minimal change disease involves damage to the glomeruli that can be seen only with an electron microscope. This type of microscope shows tiny details better than any other microscope. Scientists do not know the exact cause of minimal change disease. Minimal change disease is the most common cause of idiopathic childhood nephrotic syndrome.1  - Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis is scarring in scattered regions of the kidney:     - Focal means that only some of the glomeruli become scarred.    - Segmental means damage affects only part of an individual glomerulus.    - Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis is a group of disorders involving deposits of antibodies that build up in the glomeruli, causing thickening and damage. Antibodies are proteins made by the immune system to protect the body from foreign substances such as bacteria or viruses.
                
Secondary Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome
                
Some common diseases that can cause secondary childhood nephrotic syndrome include
                
- diabetes, a condition that occurs when the body cannot use glucosea type of sugarnormally  - Henoch-Schnlein purpura, a disease that causes small blood vessels in the body to become inflamed and leak  - hepatitis, inflammation of the liver caused by a virus  - human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a virus that alters the immune system  - lupus, an autoimmune disease that occurs when the body attacks its own immune system  - malaria, a disease of the blood that is spread by mosquitos  - streptococcal infection, an infection that results when the bacteria that causes strep throat or a skin infection is left untreated
                
Other causes of secondary childhood nephrotic syndrome can include certain medications, such as aspirin, ibuprofen, or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and exposure to chemicals, such as mercury and lithium.
                
Congenital Diseases and Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome
                
Congenital nephrotic syndrome is rare and affects infants in the first 3 months of life.2 This type of nephrotic syndrome, sometimes called infantile nephrotic syndrome, can be caused by
                
- inherited genetic defects, which are problems passed from parent to child through genes  - infections at the time of birth
                
More information about underlying diseases or infections that cause changes in kidney function is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Glomerular Diseases.

Question: What causes Acquired Cystic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: Researchers do not fully understand what causes cysts to grow in the kidneys of people with CKD. The fact that these cysts occur only in the kidneys and not in other parts of the body, as in PKD, indicates that the processes that lead to cyst formation take place primarily inside the kidneys.2

Question: What causes Prostate Enlargement: Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia ?
Answer: The cause of benign prostatic hyperplasia is not well understood; however, it occurs mainly in older men. Benign prostatic hyperplasia does not develop in men whose testicles were removed before puberty. For this reason, some researchers believe factors related to aging and the testicles may cause benign prostatic hyperplasia.
                
Throughout their lives, men produce testosterone, a male hormone, and small amounts of estrogen, a female hormone. As men age, the amount of active testosterone in their blood decreases, which leaves a higher proportion of estrogen. Scientific studies have suggested that benign prostatic hyperplasia may occur because the higher proportion of estrogen within the prostate increases the activity of substances that promote prostate cell growth.
                
Another theory focuses on dihydrotestosterone (DHT), a male hormone that plays a role in prostate development and growth. Some research has indicated that even with a drop in blood testosterone levels, older men continue to produce and accumulate high levels of DHT in the prostate. This accumulation of DHT may encourage prostate cells to continue to grow. Scientists have noted that men who do not produce DHT do not develop benign prostatic hyperplasia.

Question: What causes What I need to know about My Child's Urinary Tract Infection ?
Answer: Most UTIs are caused by bacteria that live in the bowel, the part of the digestive tract where stool is changed from liquid to solid. The bacterium Escherichia coli (E. coli) causes most UTIs. The urinary tract has several systems to prevent infection. The points where the ureters attach to the bladder act like one-way valves to prevent urine from backing up, or refluxing, toward the kidneys, and urination washes microbes out of the body. The bodys natural defenses also prevent infection. But despite these safeguards, infections still occur.
                
Other factors that may cause a child to get a UTI include the following:
                
- Waiting to urinate. Regular urination helps flush away bacteria. Holding urine allows bacteria to grow.  - Making too little urine. A child that doesnt drink enough fluids may not make enough urine to flush away bacteria.  - Constipation. Constipation is a condition in which a child has fewer than two bowel movements a week. Stools can be hard, dry, small, and difficult to pass. The hard stool in the bowel may press against the urinary tract and block the flow of urine, allowing bacteria to grow.
                
Some children are just more prone to UTIs than others, just as some children are more prone to getting coughs, colds, or ear infections.

Question: What causes Primary Biliary Cirrhosis ?
Answer: The causes of primary biliary cirrhosis are unknown. Most research suggests it is an autoimmune disease. The immune system protects people from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. An autoimmune disease is a disorder in which the bodys immune system attacks the bodys own cells and organs. In primary biliary cirrhosis, the immune system attacks the small bile ducts in the liver.
                
Genetics, or inherited genes, can make a person more likely to develop primary biliary cirrhosis. Primary biliary cirrhosis is more common in people who have a parent or siblingparticularly an identical twinwith the disease. In people who are genetically more likely to develop primary biliary cirrhosis, environmental factors may trigger or worsen the disease, including
                
- exposure to toxic chemicals  - smoking  - infections
                
Genetics can also make some people more likely to develop other autoimmune diseases, such as
                
- autoimmune hepatitis, a disease in which the bodys immune system attacks liver cells  - Sjgrens syndrome, a condition in which the immune system attacks the glands that produce tears and saliva  - autoimmune thyroid dysfunctions, conditions in which the immune system attacks the thyroid gland

Question: What causes Cystocele ?
Answer: A cystocele occurs when the muscles and supportive tissues between a womans bladder and vagina weaken and stretch, letting the bladder sag from its normal position and bulge into the vagina or through the vaginal opening. In a cystocele, the bladder tissue remains covered by the vaginal skin. A cystocele may result from damage to the muscles and tissues that hold the pelvic organs up inside the pelvis. A womans pelvic organs include the vagina, cervix, uterus, bladder, urethra, and small intestine. Damage to or weakening of the pelvic muscles and supportive tissues may occur after vaginal childbirth and with conditions that repeatedly strain or increase pressure in the pelvic area, such as
                
- repetitive straining for bowel movements  - constipation  - chronic or violent coughing  - heavy lifting  - being overweight or obese
                
A womans chances of developing a cystocele increase with age, possibly because of weakening muscles and supportive tissues from aging. Whether menopause increases a womans chances of developing a cystocele is unclear.

Question: What causes Whipple Disease ?
Answer: Bacteria called Tropheryma whipplei (T. whipplei) cause Whipple disease. T. whipplei infection can cause internal sores, also called lesions, and thickening of tissues in the small intestine. The villi take on an abnormal, clublike appearance and the damaged intestinal lining does not properly absorb nutrients, causing diarrhea and malnutrition. Diarrhea is frequent, loose, and watery bowel movements. Malnutrition is a condition that develops when the body does not get the right amount of vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients it needs to maintain healthy tissues and organ function. Over time, the infection spreads to other parts of the persons body and will damage other organs.

Question: What causes Nerve Disease and Bladder Control ?
Answer: Nerves that work poorly can lead to three different kinds of bladder control problems.
                
Overactive bladder. Damaged nerves may send signals to the bladder at the wrong time, causing its muscles to squeeze without warning. The symptoms of overactive bladder include
                
- urinary frequencydefined as urination eight or more times a day or two or more times at night  - urinary urgencythe sudden, strong need to urinate immediately  - urge incontinenceleakage of urine that follows a sudden, strong urge to urinate
                
Poor control of sphincter muscles. Sphincter muscles surround the urethra and keep it closed to hold urine in the bladder. If the nerves to the sphincter muscles are damaged, the muscles may become loose and allow leakage or stay tight when you are trying to release urine.
                
Urine retention. For some people, nerve damage means their bladder muscles do not get the message that it is time to release urine or are too weak to completely empty the bladder. If the bladder becomes too full, urine may back up and the increasing pressure may damage the kidneys. Or urine that stays too long may lead to an infection in the kidneys or bladder. Urine retention may also lead to overflow incontinence.

Question: What causes Nerve Disease and Bladder Control ?
Answer: Many events or conditions can damage nerves and nerve pathways. Some of the most common causes are
                
- vaginal childbirth  - infections of the brain or spinal cord  - diabetes  - stroke  - accidents that injure the brain or spinal cord  - multiple sclerosis  - heavy metal poisoning
                
In addition, some children are born with nerve problems that can keep the bladder from releasing urine, leading to urinary infections or kidney damage.

Question: What causes Wilson Disease ?
Answer: Wilson disease is caused by an inherited autosomal recessive mutation, or change, in the ATP7B gene. In an autosomal recessive disease, the child has to inherit the gene mutation from both parents to have an increased likelihood for the disease. The chance of a child inheriting autosomal recessive mutations from both parents with a gene mutation is 25 percent, or one in four. If only one parent carries the mutated gene, the child will not get the disease, although the child may inherit one copy of the gene mutation. The child is called a carrier of the disease and can pass the gene mutation to the next generation. Genetic testing is a procedure that identifies changes in a patients genes and can show whether a parent or child is a carrier of a mutated gene. Autosomal recessive diseases are typically not seen in every generation of an affected family.
                
The following chart shows the chance of inheriting an autosomal recessive mutation from parents who both carry the mutated gene.
                

                
Genetic Diseases   Each cell contains thousands of genes that provide the instructions for making proteins for growth and repair of the body. If a gene has a mutation, the protein made by that gene may not function properly. Not all gene mutations cause a disease.   People have two copies of most genes; they inherit one copy from each parent. A genetic disease occurs when one or both parents pass a mutated gene to a child at conception. A genetic disease can also occur through a spontaneous gene mutation, meaning neither parent carries a copy of the mutated gene. Once a spontaneous gene mutation has occurred in a person, that person can pass the gene mutation on to a child.   Read more about genes and genetic conditions in the U.S. National Library of Medicines Genetics Home Reference at www.ghr.nlm.nih.gov.

Question: What causes Anemia of Inflammation and Chronic Disease ?
Answer: Anemia of inflammation and chronic disease is caused by red blood cells not functioning normally, so they cannot absorb and use iron efficiently. In addition, the body cannot respond normally to erythropoietin (EPO), a hormone made by the kidneys that stimulates bone marrow to produce red blood cells. Over time, this abnormal functioning causes a lower than normal number of red blood cells in the body.
                
Some of the chronic diseases that lead to AI/ACD include infectious and inflammatory diseases, kidney disease, and cancer. Certain treatments for chronic diseases may also impair red blood cell production and contribute to AI/ACD.
                
Infectious and inflammatory diseases. As part of the immune system response that occurs with infectious and inflammatory diseases, cells of the immune system release proteins called cytokines. Cytokines help heal the body and defend it against infection. However, they can also affect normal body functions. In AI/ACD, immune cytokines interfere with the bodys ability to absorb and use iron. Cytokines may also interfere with the production and normal activity of EPO.
                
Infectious diseases that cause AI/ACD include
                
- tuberculosis, an infection in the lungs  - HIV/AIDS, an infection that destroys the immune system  - endocarditis, an infection in the heart  - osteomyelitis, a bone infection
                
Sometimes, acute infectionsthose that develop quickly and may not last longcan also cause AI/ACD.
                
Inflammatory diseases that can lead to AI/ACD include
                
- rheumatoid arthritis, which causes pain, swelling, stiffness, and loss of function in the joints  - lupus, which causes damage to various body tissues, such as the joints, skin, kidneys, heart, lungs, blood vessels, and brain  - diabetes, in which levels of blood glucose, also called blood sugar, are above normal  - heart failure, in which the heart cannot pump enough blood to meet the bodys needs  - inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), diseases that cause inflammation and irritation in the intestines
                
IBD, including Crohns disease, can also cause iron deficiency due to poor absorption of iron by the diseased intestine and bleeding from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract.
                
Kidney disease. People with kidney disease can develop anemia for several different reasons. Diseased kidneys often fail to make enough EPO. In addition, kidney disease results in abnormal absorption and use of iron, which is typical of AI/ACD. Anemia worsens as kidney disease advances. Therefore, most people with kidney failure have anemia. Kidney failure is described as end-stage kidney disease, sometimes called ESRD, when treated with a kidney transplant or blood-filtering treatments called dialysis.
                
People with kidney failure can also develop iron deficiency due to blood loss during hemodialysis, a type of dialysis that uses a special filter called a dialyzer to remove wastes from the blood. Low levels of iron and folic acidanother nutrient required for normal red blood cell productionmay also contribute to anemia in people with kidney disease.
                
Cancer. AI/ACD can occur with certain types of cancer, including Hodgkins disease, non-Hodgkins lymphoma, and breast cancer. Like infectious and inflammatory diseases, these types of cancer cause inflammatory cytokines to be released in the body. Anemia can also be made worse by chemotherapy and radiation treatments that damage the bone marrow, and by the cancers invasion of bone marrow.

Question: What causes Urine Blockage in Newborns ?
Answer: Many types of defects in the urinary tract can cause urine blockage:
                
- Vesicoureteral reflux (VUR). Most children with VUR are born with a ureter that did not grow long enough during development in the womb. The valve formed by the ureter pressing against the bladder wall does not close properly, so urine backs uprefluxesfrom the bladder to the ureter and eventually to the kidney. Severe reflux may prevent a kidney from developing normally and may increase the risk for damage from infections after birth. VUR usually affects only one ureter and kidney, though it can affect both ureters and kidneys.  - Ureteropelvic junction (UPJ) obstruction. If urine is blocked where the ureter joins the kidney, only the kidney swells. The ureter remains a normal size. UPJ obstruction usually occurs in only one kidney.
                
- Bladder outlet obstruction (BOO). BOO describes any blockage in the urethra or at the opening of the bladder.Posterior urethral valves (PUV), the most common form of BOO seen in newborns and during prenatal ultrasound exams, is a birth defect in boys in which an abnormal fold of tissue in the urethra keeps urine from flowing freely out of the bladder. This defect may cause swelling in the entire urinary tract, including the urethra, bladder, ureters, and kidneys.  - Ureterocele. If the end of the ureter does not develop normally, it can bulge, creating a ureterocele. The ureterocele may obstruct part of the ureter or the bladder.
                
Some babies are born with genetic conditions that affect several different systems in the body, including the urinary tract:
                
- Prune belly syndrome (PBS). PBS is a group of birth defects involving poor development of the abdominal muscles, enlargement of the ureters and bladder, and both testicles remaining inside the body instead of descending into the scrotum. The skin over the abdomen is wrinkled, giving the appearance of a prune. PBS usually occurs in boys, and most children with PBS have hydronephrosisswelling in the kidneyand VUR.  - Esophageal atresia (EA). EA is a birth defect in which the esophagusthe muscular tube that carries food and liquids from the mouth to the stomachlacks the opening for food to pass into the stomach. Babies born with EA may also have problems with their spinal columns, digestive systems, hearts, and urinary tracts.  - Congenital heart defects. Heart defects range from mild to life threatening. Children born with heart defects also have a higher rate of problems in the urinary tract than children in the general population, suggesting that some types of heart and urinary defects may have a common genetic cause.
                
Urine blockage can also be caused by spina bifida and other birth defects that affect the spinal cord. These defects may interrupt nerve signals between the bladder, spinal cord, and brain, which are needed for urination, and lead to urinary retentionthe inability to empty the bladder completelyin newborns. Urine that remains in the bladder can reflux into the ureters and kidneys, causing swelling.

Question: What causes Gas in the Digestive Tract ?
Answer: Gas in the digestive tract is usually caused by swallowing air and by the breakdown of certain foods in the large intestine by bacteria.
                
Everyone swallows a small amount of air when eating and drinking. The amount of air swallowed increases when people
                
- eat or drink too fast  - smoke  - chew gum  - suck on hard candy  - drink carbonated or fizzy drinks  - wear loose-fitting dentures
                
Burping allows some gas to leave the stomach. The remaining gas moves into the small intestine, where it is partially absorbed. A small amount travels into the large intestine for release through the anus.
                
The stomach and small intestine do not fully digest some carbohydratessugars, starches, and fiber found in many foods. This undigested food passes through the small intestine to the large intestine. Once there, undigested carbohydrates are broken down by bacteria in the large intestine, which release hydrogen and carbon dioxide in the process. Other types of bacteria in the large intestine take in hydrogen gas and create methane gas or hydrogen sulfide, the most common sulfur gas in flatus.
                
Studies have detected methane in the breath of 30 to 62 percent of healthy adults.1 A larger percentage of adults may produce methane in the intestines, but the levels may be too low to be detected. Research suggests that people with conditions that cause constipation are more likely to produce detectable amounts of methane.1 More research is needed to find out the reasons for differences in methane production and to explore the relationship between methane and other health problems.
                
Some of the gas produced in the intestines is absorbed by the bloodstream and carried to the lungs, where it is released in the breath.
                
Normally, few bacteria live in the small intestine. Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth is an increase in the number of bacteria or a change in the type of bacteria in the small intestine. These bacteria can produce excess gas and may also cause diarrhea and weight loss. Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth is usually related to diseases or disorders that damage the digestive system or affect how it works, such as Crohns diseasean inflammatory bowel disease that causes inflammation, or swelling, and irritation of any part of the gastrointestinal (GI) tractor diabetes.

Question: What causes Gas in the Digestive Tract ?
Answer: Most foods that contain carbohydrates can cause gas. In contrast, fats and proteins cause little gas. Foods that produce gas in one person may not cause gas in someone else, depending on how well individuals digest carbohydrates and the type of bacteria present in the intestines.
                
Some foods that may cause gas include
                
- beans  - vegetables such as broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, brussels sprouts, onions, mushrooms, artichokes, and asparagus  - fruits such as pears, apples, and peaches  - whole grains such as whole wheat and bran  - sodas; fruit drinks, especially apple juice and pear juice; and other drinks that contain high-fructose corn syrup, a sweetener made from corn  - milk and milk products such as cheese, ice cream, and yogurt  - packaged foodssuch as bread, cereal, and salad dressingthat contain small amounts of lactose, a sugar found in milk and foods made with milk  - sugar-free candies and gums that contain sugar alcohols such as sorbitol, mannitol, and xylitol

Question: What causes Gas in the Digestive Tract ?
Answer: People can try to find the cause of gas on their own by keeping a diary of what they eat and drink and how often they burp, pass gas, or have other symptoms. A diary may help identify specific foods that cause gas.
                
A health care provider should be consulted if
                
- symptoms of gas are bothersome  - symptoms change suddenly  - new symptoms occur, especially in people older than age 40  - gas is accompanied by other symptoms, such as constipation, diarrhea, or weight loss
                
The health care provider will ask about dietary habits and symptoms and may ask a person to keep a food diary. Careful review of diet and the amount of burping or gas passed may help relate specific foods to symptoms and determine the severity of the problem. Recording gas symptoms can help determine whether the problem is too much gas in the intestines or increased sensitivity to normal amounts of gas.
                
If milk or milk products are causing gas, the health care provider may perform blood or breath tests to check for lactose intolerance, the inability or insufficient ability to digest lactose. Lactose intolerance is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme lactase, which is needed to digest lactose. The health care provider may suggest avoiding milk products for a short time to see if symptoms improve.
                
The health care provider may perform a physical exam and order other types of diagnostic tests, depending on a persons symptoms. These tests can rule out serious health problems that may cause gas or symptoms similar to those of gas.

Question: What causes Proctitis ?
Answer: Proctitis has many causes, including acute, or sudden and short-term, and chronic, or long-lasting, conditions. Among the causes are the following:
                
- Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). STDs that can be passed when a person is receiving anal sex are a common cause of proctitis. Common STD infections that can cause proctitis include gonorrhea, chlamydia, syphilis, and herpes. Herpes-induced proctitis may be particularly severe in people who are also infected with the HIV virus.  - Non-STD infections. Infections that are not sexually transmitted also can cause proctitis. Salmonella and Shigella are examples of foodborne bacteria that can cause proctitis. Streptococcal proctitis sometimes occurs in children who have strep throat.  - Anorectal trauma. Proctitis can be caused by trauma to the anorectal areawhich includes the rectum and anusfrom anal sex or the insertion of objects or harmful substances into the rectum, including the chemicals in some enemas.  - Ulcerative colitis and Crohns disease. Two forms of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)ulcerative colitis and Crohns diseasecan cause proctitis. Ulcerative colitis causes irritation and ulcers, also called sores, in the inner lining of the colonpart of the large intestineand rectum. Crohns disease usually causes irritation in the lower small intestinealso called the ileumor the colon, but it can affect any part of the GI tract.  - Radiation therapy. People who have had radiation therapy that targets the pelvic area also may develop proctitis. Examples of those at risk are people with rectal, ovarian, or prostate cancer who have received radiation treatment directed to those areas. Symptoms of radiation proctitis, most commonly rectal bleeding, will typically occur within 6 weeks after beginning radiation therapy or more than 9 months after its completion.  - Antibiotics. Use of antibiotics may be associated with proctitis in some people. While meant to kill infectioncausing bacteria, antibiotics can also kill nonharmful, or commensal, bacteria in the GI tract. The loss of commensal bacteria can then allow other harmful bacteria known as Clostridium difficile to cause an infection in the colon and rectum.

Question: What causes Proctitis ?
Answer: Proctitis has many causes, including acute, or sudden and short-term, and chronic, or long-lasting, conditions. Among the causes are the following:
                
- Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). STDs that can be passed when a person is receiving anal sex are a common cause of proctitis. Common STD infections that can cause proctitis include gonorrhea, chlamydia, syphilis, and herpes. Herpes-induced proctitis may be particularly severe in people who are also infected with the HIV virus.  - Non-STD infections. Infections that are not sexually transmitted also can cause proctitis. Salmonella and Shigella are examples of foodborne bacteria that can cause proctitis. Streptococcal proctitis sometimes occurs in children who have strep throat.  - Anorectal trauma. Proctitis can be caused by trauma to the anorectal areawhich includes the rectum and anusfrom anal sex or the insertion of objects or harmful substances into the rectum, including the chemicals in some enemas.  - Ulcerative colitis and Crohns disease. Two forms of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)ulcerative colitis and Crohns diseasecan cause proctitis. Ulcerative colitis causes irritation and ulcers, also called sores, in the inner lining of the colonpart of the large intestineand rectum. Crohns disease usually causes irritation in the lower small intestinealso called the ileumor the colon, but it can affect any part of the GI tract.  - Radiation therapy. People who have had radiation therapy that targets the pelvic area also may develop proctitis. Examples of those at risk are people with rectal, ovarian, or prostate cancer who have received radiation treatment directed to those areas. Symptoms of radiation proctitis, most commonly rectal bleeding, will typically occur within 6 weeks after beginning radiation therapy or more than 9 months after its completion.  - Antibiotics. Use of antibiotics may be associated with proctitis in some people. While meant to kill infectioncausing bacteria, antibiotics can also kill nonharmful, or commensal, bacteria in the GI tract. The loss of commensal bacteria can then allow other harmful bacteria known as Clostridium difficile to cause an infection in the colon and rectum.

Question: What causes Gastroparesis ?
Answer: Most people diagnosed with gastroparesis have idiopathic gastroparesis, which means a health care provider cannot identify the cause, even with medical tests. Diabetes is the most common known cause of gastroparesis. People with diabetes have high levels of blood glucose, also called blood sugar. Over time, high blood glucose levels can damage the vagus nerve. Other identifiable causes of gastroparesis include intestinal surgery and nervous system diseases such as Parkinsons disease or multiple sclerosis. For reasons that are still unclear, gastroparesis is more commonly found in women than in men.

Question: What causes Abdominal Adhesions ?
Answer: Abdominal surgery is the most frequent cause of abdominal adhesions. Surgery-related causes include
                
- cuts involving internal organs   - handling of internal organs  - drying out of internal organs and tissues  - contact of internal tissues with foreign materials, such as gauze, surgical gloves, and stitches  - blood or blood clots that were not rinsed away during surgery
                
Abdominal adhesions can also result from inflammation not related to surgery, including
                
- appendix rupture  - radiation treatment  - gynecological infections  - abdominal infections
                
Rarely, abdominal adhesions form without apparent cause.

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Type 1 diabetes is caused by a lack of insulin due to the destruction of insulin-producing beta cells in the pancreas. In type 1 diabetesan autoimmune diseasethe bodys immune system attacks and destroys the beta cells. Normally, the immune system protects the body from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. But in autoimmune diseases, the immune system attacks the bodys own cells. In type 1 diabetes, beta cell destruction may take place over several years, but symptoms of the disease usually develop over a short period of time.
                
Type 1 diabetes typically occurs in children and young adults, though it can appear at any age. In the past, type 1 diabetes was called juvenile diabetes or insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
                
Latent autoimmune diabetes in adults (LADA) may be a slowly developing kind of type 1 diabetes. Diagnosis usually occurs after age 30. In LADA, as in type 1 diabetes, the bodys immune system destroys the beta cells. At the time of diagnosis, people with LADA may still produce their own insulin, but eventually most will need insulin shots or an insulin pump to control blood glucose levels.
                
Genetic Susceptibility
                
Heredity plays an important part in determining who is likely to develop type 1 diabetes. Genes are passed down from biological parent to child. Genes carry instructions for making proteins that are needed for the bodys cells to function. Many genes, as well as interactions among genes, are thought to influence susceptibility to and protection from type 1 diabetes. The key genes may vary in different population groups. Variations in genes that affect more than 1 percent of a population group are called gene variants.
                
Certain gene variants that carry instructions for making proteins called human leukocyte antigens (HLAs) on white blood cells are linked to the risk of developing type 1 diabetes. The proteins produced by HLA genes help determine whether the immune system recognizes a cell as part of the body or as foreign material. Some combinations of HLA gene variants predict that a person will be at higher risk for type 1 diabetes, while other combinations are protective or have no effect on risk.
                
While HLA genes are the major risk genes for type 1 diabetes, many additional risk genes or gene regions have been found. Not only can these genes help identify people at risk for type 1 diabetes, but they also provide important clues to help scientists better understand how the disease develops and identify potential targets for therapy and prevention.
                
Genetic testing can show what types of HLA genes a person carries and can reveal other genes linked to diabetes. However, most genetic testing is done in a research setting and is not yet available to individuals. Scientists are studying how the results of genetic testing can be used to improve type 1 diabetes prevention or treatment.
                
Autoimmune Destruction of Beta Cells
                
In type 1 diabetes, white blood cells called T cells attack and destroy beta cells. The process begins well before diabetes symptoms appear and continues after diagnosis. Often, type 1 diabetes is not diagnosed until most beta cells have already been destroyed. At this point, a person needs daily insulin treatment to survive. Finding ways to modify or stop this autoimmune process and preserve beta cell function is a major focus of current scientific research.
                
Recent research suggests insulin itself may be a key trigger of the immune attack on beta cells. The immune systems of people who are susceptible to developing type 1 diabetes respond to insulin as if it were a foreign substance, or antigen. To combat antigens, the body makes proteins called antibodies. Antibodies to insulin and other proteins produced by beta cells are found in people with type 1 diabetes. Researchers test for these antibodies to help identify people at increased risk of developing the disease. Testing the types and levels of antibodies in the blood can help determine whether a person has type 1 diabetes, LADA, or another type of diabetes.
                
Environmental Factors
                
Environmental factors, such as foods, viruses, and toxins, may play a role in the development of type 1 diabetes, but the exact nature of their role has not been determined. Some theories suggest that environmental factors trigger the autoimmune destruction of beta cells in people with a genetic susceptibility to diabetes. Other theories suggest that environmental factors play an ongoing role in diabetes, even after diagnosis.
                
Viruses and infections. A virus cannot cause diabetes on its own, but people are sometimes diagnosed with type 1 diabetes during or after a viral infection, suggesting a link between the two. Also, the onset of type 1 diabetes occurs more frequently during the winter when viral infections are more common. Viruses possibly associated with type 1 diabetes include coxsackievirus B, cytomegalovirus, adenovirus, rubella, and mumps. Scientists have described several ways these viruses may damage or destroy beta cells or possibly trigger an autoimmune response in susceptible people. For example, anti-islet antibodies have been found in patients with congenital rubella syndrome, and cytomegalovirus has been associated with significant beta cell damage and acute pancreatitisinflammation of the pancreas. Scientists are trying to identify a virus that can cause type 1 diabetes so that a vaccine might be developed to prevent the disease.
                
Infant feeding practices. Some studies have suggested that dietary factors may raise or lower the risk of developing type 1 diabetes. For example, breastfed infants and infants receiving vitamin D supplements may have a reduced risk of developing type 1 diabetes, while early exposure to cows milk and cereal proteins may increase risk. More research is needed to clarify how infant nutrition affects the risk for type 1 diabetes.
                
Read more in the Centers for Disease Control and Preventions (CDCs) publication  National Diabetes Statistics Report, 2014 at  www.cdc.gov for information about research studies related to type 1 diabetes.

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Type 2 diabetesthe most common form of diabetesis caused by a combination of factors, including insulin resistance, a condition in which the bodys muscle, fat, and liver cells do not use insulin effectively. Type 2 diabetes develops when the body can no longer produce enough insulin to compensate for the impaired ability to use insulin. Symptoms of type 2 diabetes may develop gradually and can be subtle; some people with type 2 diabetes remain undiagnosed for years.
                
Type 2 diabetes develops most often in middle-aged and older people who are also overweight or obese. The disease, once rare in youth, is becoming more common in overweight and obese children and adolescents. Scientists think genetic susceptibility and environmental factors are the most likely triggers of type 2 diabetes.
                
Genetic Susceptibility
                
Genes play a significant part in susceptibility to type 2 diabetes. Having certain genes or combinations of genes may increase or decrease a persons risk for developing the disease. The role of genes is suggested by the high rate of type 2 diabetes in families and identical twins and wide variations in diabetes prevalence by ethnicity. Type 2 diabetes occurs more frequently in African Americans, Alaska Natives, American Indians, Hispanics/Latinos, and some Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islander Americans than it does in non-Hispanic whites.
                
Recent studies have combined genetic data from large numbers of people, accelerating the pace of gene discovery. Though scientists have now identified many gene variants that increase susceptibility to type 2 diabetes, the majority have yet to be discovered. The known genes appear to affect insulin production rather than insulin resistance. Researchers are working to identify additional gene variants and to learn how they interact with one another and with environmental factors to cause diabetes.
                
Studies have shown that variants of the TCF7L2 gene increase susceptibility to type 2 diabetes. For people who inherit two copies of the variants, the risk of developing type 2 diabetes is about 80 percent higher than for those who do not carry the gene variant.1 However, even in those with the variant, diet and physical activity leading to weight loss help delay diabetes, according to the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP), a major clinical trial involving people at high risk.
                
Genes can also increase the risk of diabetes by increasing a persons tendency to become overweight or obese. One theory, known as the thrifty gene hypothesis, suggests certain genes increase the efficiency of metabolism to extract energy from food and store the energy for later use. This survival trait was advantageous for populations whose food supplies were scarce or unpredictable and could help keep people alive during famine. In modern times, however, when high-calorie foods are plentiful, such a trait can promote obesity and type 2 diabetes.
                
Obesity and Physical Inactivity
                
Physical inactivity and obesity are strongly associated with the development of type 2 diabetes. People who are genetically susceptible to type 2 diabetes are more vulnerable when these risk factors are present.
                
An imbalance between caloric intake and physical activity can lead to obesity, which causes insulin resistance and is common in people with type 2 diabetes. Central obesity, in which a person has excess abdominal fat, is a major risk factor not only for insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes but also for heart and blood vessel disease, also called cardiovascular disease (CVD). This excess belly fat produces hormones and other substances that can cause harmful, chronic effects in the body such as damage to blood vessels.
                
The DPP and other studies show that millions of people can lower their risk for type 2 diabetes by making lifestyle changes and losing weight. The DPP proved that people with prediabetesat high risk of developing type 2 diabetescould sharply lower their risk by losing weight through regular physical activity and a diet low in fat and calories. In 2009, a follow-up study of DPP participantsthe Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study (DPPOS)showed that the benefits of weight loss lasted for at least 10 years after the original study began.2
                
Read more about the DPP, funded under National Institutes of Health (NIH) clinical trial number NCT00004992, and the DPPOS, funded under NIH clinical trial number NCT00038727 in  Diabetes Prevention Program.
                
Insulin Resistance
                
Insulin resistance is a common condition in people who are overweight or obese, have excess abdominal fat, and are not physically active. Muscle, fat, and liver cells stop responding properly to insulin, forcing the pancreas to compensate by producing extra insulin. As long as beta cells are able to produce enough insulin, blood glucose levels stay in the normal range. But when insulin production falters because of beta cell dysfunction, glucose levels rise, leading to prediabetes or diabetes.
                
Abnormal Glucose Production by the Liver
                
In some people with diabetes, an abnormal increase in glucose production by the liver also contributes to high blood glucose levels. Normally, the pancreas releases the hormone glucagon when blood glucose and insulin levels are low. Glucagon stimulates the liver to produce glucose and release it into the bloodstream. But when blood glucose and insulin levels are high after a meal, glucagon levels drop, and the liver stores excess glucose for later, when it is needed. For reasons not completely understood, in many people with diabetes, glucagon levels stay higher than needed. High glucagon levels cause the liver to produce unneeded glucose, which contributes to high blood glucose levels. Metformin, the most commonly used drug to treat type 2 diabetes, reduces glucose production by the liver.
                
The Roles of Insulin and Glucagon in Normal Blood Glucose Regulation
                
A healthy persons body keeps blood glucose levels in a normal range through several complex mechanisms. Insulin and glucagon, two hormones made in the pancreas, help regulate blood glucose levels:
                
- Insulin, made by beta cells, lowers elevated blood glucose levels.  - Glucagon, made by alpha cells, raises low blood glucose levels.
                
- Insulin helps muscle, fat, and liver cells absorb glucose from the bloodstream, lowering blood glucose levels.  - Insulin stimulates the liver and muscle tissue to store excess glucose. The stored form of glucose is called glycogen.  - Insulin also lowers blood glucose levels by reducing glucose production in the liver.
                
- Glucagon signals the liver and muscle tissue to break down glycogen into glucose, which enters the bloodstream and raises blood glucose levels.  - If the body needs more glucose, glucagon stimulates the liver to make glucose from amino acids.
                
Metabolic Syndrome
                
Metabolic syndrome, also called insulin resistance syndrome, refers to a group of conditions common in people with insulin resistance, including
                
- higher than normal blood glucose levels  - increased waist size due to excess abdominal fat  - high blood pressure  - abnormal levels of cholesterol and triglycerides in the blood
                
Cell Signaling and Regulation
                
Cells communicate through a complex network of molecular signaling pathways. For example, on cell surfaces, insulin receptor molecules capture, or bind, insulin molecules circulating in the bloodstream. This interaction between insulin and its receptor prompts the biochemical signals that enable the cells to absorb glucose from the blood and use it for energy.
                
Problems in cell signaling systems can set off a chain reaction that leads to diabetes or other diseases. Many studies have focused on how insulin signals cells to communicate and regulate action. Researchers have identified proteins and pathways that transmit the insulin signal and have mapped interactions between insulin and body tissues, including the way insulin helps the liver control blood glucose levels. Researchers have also found that key signals also come from fat cells, which produce substances that cause inflammation and insulin resistance.
                
This work holds the key to combating insulin resistance and diabetes. As scientists learn more about cell signaling systems involved in glucose regulation, they will have more opportunities to develop effective treatments.
                
Beta Cell Dysfunction
                
Scientists think beta cell dysfunction is a key contributor to type 2 diabetes. Beta cell impairment can cause inadequate or abnormal patterns of insulin release. Also, beta cells may be damaged by high blood glucose itself, a condition called glucose toxicity.
                
Scientists have not determined the causes of beta cell dysfunction in most cases. Single gene defects lead to specific forms of diabetes called maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY). The genes involved regulate insulin production in the beta cells. Although these forms of diabetes are rare, they provide clues as to how beta cell function may be affected by key regulatory factors. Other gene variants are involved in determining the number and function of beta cells. But these variants account for only a small percentage of type 2 diabetes cases. Malnutrition early in life is also being investigated as a cause of beta cell dysfunction. The metabolic environment of the developing fetus may also create a predisposition for diabetes later in life.
                
Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
                
People who develop type 2 diabetes are more likely to have the following characteristics:
                
- age 45 or older  - overweight or obese  - physically inactive  - parent or sibling with diabetes  - family background that is African American, Alaska Native, American Indian, Asian American, Hispanic/Latino, or Pacific Islander American  - history of giving birth to a baby weighing more than 9 pounds  - history of gestational diabetes  - high blood pressure140/90 or aboveor being treated for high blood pressure  - high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good, cholesterol below 35 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL), or a triglyceride level above 250 mg/dL  - polycystic ovary syndrome, also called PCOS  - prediabetesan A1C level of 5.7 to 6.4 percent; a fasting plasma glucose test result of 100125 mg/dL, called impaired fasting glucose; or a 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test result of 140199, called impaired glucose tolerance  - acanthosis nigricans, a condition associated with insulin resistance, characterized by a dark, velvety rash around the neck or armpits  - history of CVD
                
The American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends that testing to detect prediabetes and type 2 diabetes be considered in adults who are overweight or obese and have one or more additional risk factors for diabetes. In adults without these risk factors, testing should begin at age 45.

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Insulin Resistance and Beta Cell Dysfunction
                
Hormones produced by the placenta and other pregnancy-related factors contribute to insulin resistance, which occurs in all women during late pregnancy. Insulin resistance increases the amount of insulin needed to control blood glucose levels. If the pancreas cant produce enough insulin due to beta cell dysfunction, gestational diabetes occurs.
                
As with type 2 diabetes, excess weight is linked to gestational diabetes. Overweight or obese women are at particularly high risk for gestational diabetes because they start pregnancy with a higher need for insulin due to insulin resistance. Excessive weight gain during pregnancy may also increase risk.
                
Family History
                
Having a family history of diabetes is also a risk factor for gestational diabetes, suggesting that genes play a role in its development. Genetics may also explain why the disorder occurs more frequently in African Americans, American Indians, and Hispanics/Latinos. Many gene variants or combinations of variants may increase a womans risk for developing gestational diabetes. Studies have found several gene variants associated with gestational diabetes, but these variants account for only a small fraction of women with gestational diabetes.
                
Future Risk of Type 2 Diabetes
                
Because a womans hormones usually return to normal levels soon after giving birth, gestational diabetes disappears in most women after delivery. However, women who have gestational diabetes are more likely to develop gestational diabetes with future pregnancies and develop type 2 diabetes.3 Women with gestational diabetes should be tested for persistent diabetes 6 to 12 weeks after delivery and at least every 3 years thereafter.
                
Also, exposure to high glucose levels during gestation increases a childs risk for becoming overweight or obese and for developing type 2 diabetes later on. The result may be a cycle of diabetes affecting multiple generations in a family. For both mother and child, maintaining a healthy body weight and being physically active may help prevent type 2 diabetes.

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Other types of diabetes have a variety of possible causes.
                
Genetic Mutations Affecting Beta Cells, Insulin, and Insulin Action
                
Some relatively uncommon forms of diabetes known as monogenic diabetes are caused by mutations, or changes, in a single gene. These mutations are usually inherited, but sometimes the gene mutation occurs spontaneously. Most of these gene mutations cause diabetes by reducing beta cells ability to produce insulin.
                
The most common types of monogenic diabetes are neonatal diabetes mellitus (NDM) and MODY. NDM occurs in the first 6 months of life. MODY is usually found during adolescence or early adulthood but sometimes is not diagnosed until later in life. More information about NDM and MODY is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Monogenic Forms of Diabetes.
                
Other rare genetic mutations can cause diabetes by damaging the quality of insulin the body produces or by causing abnormalities in insulin receptors.
                
Other Genetic Diseases
                
Diabetes occurs in people with Down syndrome, Klinefelter syndrome, and Turner syndrome at higher rates than the general population. Scientists are investigating whether genes that may predispose people to genetic syndromes also predispose them to diabetes.
                
The genetic disorders cystic fibrosis and hemochromatosis are linked to diabetes. Cystic fibrosis produces abnormally thick mucus, which blocks the pancreas. The risk of diabetes increases with age in people with cystic fibrosis. Hemochromatosis causes the body to store too much iron. If the disorder is not treated, iron can build up in and damage the pancreas and other organs.
                
Damage to or Removal of the Pancreas
                
Pancreatitis, cancer, and trauma can all harm the pancreatic beta cells or impair insulin production, thus causing diabetes. If the damaged pancreas is removed, diabetes will occur due to the loss of the beta cells.
                
Endocrine Diseases
                
Endocrine diseases affect organs that produce hormones. Cushings syndrome and acromegaly are examples of hormonal disorders that can cause prediabetes and diabetes by inducing insulin resistance. Cushings syndrome is marked by excessive production of cortisolsometimes called the stress hormone. Acromegaly occurs when the body produces too much growth hormone. Glucagonoma, a rare tumor of the pancreas, can also cause diabetes. The tumor causes the body to produce too much glucagon. Hyperthyroidism, a disorder that occurs when the thyroid gland produces too much thyroid hormone, can also cause elevated blood glucose levels.
                
Autoimmune Disorders
                
Rare disorders characterized by antibodies that disrupt insulin action can lead to diabetes. This kind of diabetes is often associated with other autoimmune disorders such as lupus erythematosus. Another rare autoimmune disorder called stiff-man syndrome is associated with antibodies that attack the beta cells, similar to type 1 diabetes.
                
Medications and Chemical Toxins
                
Some medications, such as nicotinic acid and certain types of diuretics, anti-seizure drugs, psychiatric drugs, and drugs to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), can impair beta cells or disrupt insulin action. Pentamidine, a drug prescribed to treat a type of pneumonia, can increase the risk of pancreatitis, beta cell damage, and diabetes. Also, glucocorticoidssteroid hormones that are chemically similar to naturally produced cortisolmay impair insulin action. Glucocorticoids are used to treat inflammatory illnesses such as rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, lupus, and ulcerative colitis.
                
Many chemical toxins can damage or destroy beta cells in animals, but only a few have been linked to diabetes in humans. For example, dioxina contaminant of the herbicide Agent Orange, used during the Vietnam Warmay be linked to the development of type 2 diabetes. In 2000, based on a report from the Institute of Medicine, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) added diabetes to the list of conditions for which Vietnam veterans are eligible for disability compensation. Also, a chemical in a rat poison no longer in use has been shown to cause diabetes if ingested. Some studies suggest a high intake of nitrogen-containing chemicals such as nitrates and nitrites might increase the risk of diabetes. Arsenic has also been studied for possible links to diabetes.
                
Lipodystrophy
                
Lipodystrophy is a condition in which fat tissue is lost or redistributed in the body. The condition is associated with insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Other types of diabetes have a variety of possible causes.
                
Genetic Mutations Affecting Beta Cells, Insulin, and Insulin Action
                
Some relatively uncommon forms of diabetes known as monogenic diabetes are caused by mutations, or changes, in a single gene. These mutations are usually inherited, but sometimes the gene mutation occurs spontaneously. Most of these gene mutations cause diabetes by reducing beta cells ability to produce insulin.
                
The most common types of monogenic diabetes are neonatal diabetes mellitus (NDM) and MODY. NDM occurs in the first 6 months of life. MODY is usually found during adolescence or early adulthood but sometimes is not diagnosed until later in life. More information about NDM and MODY is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Monogenic Forms of Diabetes.
                
Other rare genetic mutations can cause diabetes by damaging the quality of insulin the body produces or by causing abnormalities in insulin receptors.
                
Other Genetic Diseases
                
Diabetes occurs in people with Down syndrome, Klinefelter syndrome, and Turner syndrome at higher rates than the general population. Scientists are investigating whether genes that may predispose people to genetic syndromes also predispose them to diabetes.
                
The genetic disorders cystic fibrosis and hemochromatosis are linked to diabetes. Cystic fibrosis produces abnormally thick mucus, which blocks the pancreas. The risk of diabetes increases with age in people with cystic fibrosis. Hemochromatosis causes the body to store too much iron. If the disorder is not treated, iron can build up in and damage the pancreas and other organs.
                
Damage to or Removal of the Pancreas
                
Pancreatitis, cancer, and trauma can all harm the pancreatic beta cells or impair insulin production, thus causing diabetes. If the damaged pancreas is removed, diabetes will occur due to the loss of the beta cells.
                
Endocrine Diseases
                
Endocrine diseases affect organs that produce hormones. Cushings syndrome and acromegaly are examples of hormonal disorders that can cause prediabetes and diabetes by inducing insulin resistance. Cushings syndrome is marked by excessive production of cortisolsometimes called the stress hormone. Acromegaly occurs when the body produces too much growth hormone. Glucagonoma, a rare tumor of the pancreas, can also cause diabetes. The tumor causes the body to produce too much glucagon. Hyperthyroidism, a disorder that occurs when the thyroid gland produces too much thyroid hormone, can also cause elevated blood glucose levels.
                
Autoimmune Disorders
                
Rare disorders characterized by antibodies that disrupt insulin action can lead to diabetes. This kind of diabetes is often associated with other autoimmune disorders such as lupus erythematosus. Another rare autoimmune disorder called stiff-man syndrome is associated with antibodies that attack the beta cells, similar to type 1 diabetes.
                
Medications and Chemical Toxins
                
Some medications, such as nicotinic acid and certain types of diuretics, anti-seizure drugs, psychiatric drugs, and drugs to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), can impair beta cells or disrupt insulin action. Pentamidine, a drug prescribed to treat a type of pneumonia, can increase the risk of pancreatitis, beta cell damage, and diabetes. Also, glucocorticoidssteroid hormones that are chemically similar to naturally produced cortisolmay impair insulin action. Glucocorticoids are used to treat inflammatory illnesses such as rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, lupus, and ulcerative colitis.
                
Many chemical toxins can damage or destroy beta cells in animals, but only a few have been linked to diabetes in humans. For example, dioxina contaminant of the herbicide Agent Orange, used during the Vietnam Warmay be linked to the development of type 2 diabetes. In 2000, based on a report from the Institute of Medicine, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) added diabetes to the list of conditions for which Vietnam veterans are eligible for disability compensation. Also, a chemical in a rat poison no longer in use has been shown to cause diabetes if ingested. Some studies suggest a high intake of nitrogen-containing chemicals such as nitrates and nitrites might increase the risk of diabetes. Arsenic has also been studied for possible links to diabetes.
                
Lipodystrophy
                
Lipodystrophy is a condition in which fat tissue is lost or redistributed in the body. The condition is associated with insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.

Question: What causes Renal Artery Stenosis ?
Answer: About 90 percent of RAS is caused by atherosclerosisclogging, narrowing, and hardening of the renal arteries.2 In these cases, RAS develops when plaquea sticky substance made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other material found in the bloodbuilds up on the inner wall of one or both renal arteries. Plaque buildup is what makes the artery wall hard and narrow.
                
Most other cases of RAS are caused by fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD)the abnormal development or growth of cells on the renal artery wallswhich can cause blood vessels to narrow. Rarely, RAS is caused by other conditions.

Question: What causes Crohn's Disease ?
Answer: The exact cause of Crohn's disease is unknown. Researchers believe the following factors may play a role in causing Crohn's disease:
                
- autoimmune reaction  - genes  - environment
                
Autoimmune reaction. Scientists believe one cause of Crohn's disease may be an autoimmune reactionwhen a person's immune system attacks healthy cells in the body by mistake. Normally, the immune system protects the body from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. Researchers believe bacteria or viruses can mistakenly trigger the immune system to attack the inner lining of the intestines. This immune system response causes the inflammation, leading to symptoms.
                
Genes. Crohn's disease sometimes runs in families. Research has shown that people who have a parent or sibling with Crohn's disease may be more likely to develop the disease. Researchers continue to study the link between genes and Crohn's disease.
                
Environment. Some studies suggest that certain things in the environment may increase the chance of a person getting Crohn's disease, although the overall chance is low. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs,1 antibiotics,2 and oral contraceptives2 may slightly increase the chance of developing Crohn's disease. A high-fat diet may also slightly increase the chance of getting Crohn's disease.3
                
Some people incorrectly believe that eating certain foods, stress, or emotional distress can cause Crohn's disease. Emotional distress and eating certain foods do not cause Crohn's disease. Sometimes the stress of living with Crohn's disease can make symptoms worse. Also, some people may find that certain foods can trigger or worsen their symptoms.

Question: What causes Viral Hepatitis: A through E and Beyond ?
Answer: Some cases of viral hepatitis cannot be attributed to the hepatitis A, B, C, D, or E viruses, or even the less common viruses that can infect the liver, such as cytomegalovirus, Epstein-Barr virus, herpesvirus, parvovirus, and adenovirus. These cases are called non-AE hepatitis. Scientists continue to study the causes of non-AE hepatitis.

Question: What causes Diabetic Neuropathies: The Nerve Damage of Diabetes ?
Answer: The causes are probably different for different types of diabetic neuropathy. Researchers are studying how prolonged exposure to high blood glucose causes nerve damage. Nerve damage is likely due to a combination of factors:
                
- metabolic factors, such as high blood glucose, long duration of diabetes, abnormal blood fat levels, and possibly low levels of insulin  - neurovascular factors, leading to damage to the blood vessels that carry oxygen and nutrients to nerves  - autoimmune factors that cause inflammation in nerves  - mechanical injury to nerves, such as carpal tunnel syndrome  - inherited traits that increase susceptibility to nerve disease  - lifestyle factors, such as smoking or alcohol use

Question: What causes National Hormone and Pituitary Program (NHPP): Information for People Treated with Pituitary Human Growth Hormone (Comprehensive Report) ?
Answer: We have not found any particular preparation of pituitary hGH that is especially likely to carry CJD. We believe that CJD did not come from a single infected pituitary gland or preparation. Prior to 1977, in an effort to extract as much hormone as possible from the pituitary glands, the glands were often processed repeatedly. Hormone extracted from the same pituitaries was often included in many hormone preparations. Also, patients who got CJD were treated on average for 8.4 years and received many different hormone preparations. This makes it very difficult to identify any preparation associated with transmitting CJD.
                
Doctors wanted to see if a specific preparation of pituitary hGH could transmit CJD. To try to find the pituitary hGH that could have caused CJD, HHS researchers did two things:
                
1. They set up a test in animals, injecting samples of all available preparations of pituitary hGH directly into the brains of monkeys. CJD develops more rapidly if injected into the brain than under the skin, as hGH was used in people. The animals were watched for 10 years. The brains of all animals were examined for signs of CJD. If an animal got sick with CJD, it would help researchers to understand which vials of pituitary hGH were contaminated with the agent that causes CJD.
                
2. They studied people treated with pituitary hGH to see who got CJD and which hormone preparation they might have received based on which preparations were sent to their doctor.
                
Results:
                
- The animal tests did not help find the pituitary hGH that might have caused CJD. One animal developed the disease 5 years after injection of pituitary hGH. Two other animals that received injections from different vials of the same pituitary hGH preparation did not develop CJD.  - None of the people who developed CJD are known to have received the hormone preparation that made the animal sick. At most, two patients (whose records are incomplete) may have received this pituitary hGH preparation. Because of this, we do not believe that the patients who received the hormone preparation that transmitted CJD to the animal have a greater risk of developing CJD than others treated with pituitary hGH. Because each preparation of pituitary hGH was used to fill multiple vials, it is not known if CJD contamination was spread evenly among all vials of pituitary hGH that came from a particular preparation. It's possible that one vial got more contamination and another got little or none from the same preparation of pituitary hGH. It is believed that multiple preparations of pituitary hGH probably had very low levels of the CJD infectious agent. With such low levels of contamination, some vials of a preparation might carry CJD while other vials would not. Further, most of the people who got CJD received pituitary hGH for long periods of time and received many different preparations.

Question: What causes Foodborne Illnesses ?
Answer: The majority of foodborne illnesses are caused by harmful bacteria and viruses.2 Some parasites and chemicals also cause foodborne illnesses.
                
Bacteria
                
Bacteria are tiny organisms that can cause infections of the GI tract. Not all bacteria are harmful to humans.
                
Some harmful bacteria may already be present in foods when they are purchased. Raw foods including meat, poultry, fish and shellfish, eggs, unpasteurized milk and dairy products, and fresh produce often contain bacteria that cause foodborne illnesses. Bacteria can contaminate foodmaking it harmful to eatat any time during growth, harvesting or slaughter, processing, storage, and shipping.
                
Foods may also be contaminated with bacteria during food preparation in a restaurant or home kitchen. If food preparers do not thoroughly wash their hands, kitchen utensils, cutting boards, and other kitchen surfaces that come into contact with raw foods, cross-contaminationthe spread of bacteria from contaminated food to uncontaminated foodmay occur.
                
If hot food is not kept hot enough or cold food is not kept cold enough, bacteria may multiply. Bacteria multiply quickly when the temperature of food is between 40 and 140 degrees. Cold food should be kept below 40 degrees and hot food should be kept above 140 degrees. Bacteria multiply more slowly when food is refrigerated, and freezing food can further slow or even stop the spread of bacteria. However, bacteria in refrigerated or frozen foods become active again when food is brought to room temperature. Thoroughly cooking food kills bacteria.
                
Many types of bacteria cause foodborne illnesses. Examples include
                
- Salmonella, a bacterium found in many foods, including raw and undercooked meat, poultry, dairy products, and seafood. Salmonella may also be present on egg shells and inside eggs.  - Campylobacter jejuni (C. jejuni), found in raw or undercooked chicken and unpasteurized milk.  - Shigella, a bacterium spread from person to person. These bacteria are present in the stools of people who are infected. If people who are infected do not wash their hands thoroughly after using the bathroom, they can contaminate food that they handle or prepare. Water contaminated with infected stools can also contaminate produce in the field.  - Escherichia coli (E. coli), which includes several different strains, only a few of which cause illness in humans. E. coli O157:H7 is the strain that causes the most severe illness. Common sources of E. coli include raw or undercooked hamburger, unpasteurized fruit juices and milk, and fresh produce.  - Listeria monocytogenes (L. monocytogenes), which has been found in raw and undercooked meats, unpasteurized milk, soft cheeses, and ready-to-eat deli meats and hot dogs.  - Vibrio, a bacterium that may contaminate fish or shellfish.  - Clostridium botulinum (C. botulinum), a bacterium that may contaminate improperly canned foods and smoked and salted fish.
                
Viruses
                
Viruses are tiny capsules, much smaller than bacteria, that contain genetic material. Viruses cause infections that can lead to sickness. People can pass viruses to each other. Viruses are present in the stool or vomit of people who are infected. People who are infected with a virus may contaminate food and drinks, especially if they do not wash their hands thoroughly after using the bathroom.
                
Common sources of foodborne viruses include
                
- food prepared by a person infected with a virus  - shellfish from contaminated water  - produce irrigated with contaminated water
                
Common foodborne viruses include
                
- norovirus, which causes inflammation of the stomach and intestines  - hepatitis A, which causes inflammation of the liver
                
Parasites
                
Parasites are tiny organisms that live inside another organism. In developed countries such as the United States, parasitic infections are relatively rare.
                
Cryptosporidium parvum and Giardia intestinalis are parasites that are spread through water contaminated with the stools of people or animals who are infected. Foods that come into contact with contaminated water during growth or preparation can become contaminated with these parasites. Food preparers who are infected with these parasites can also contaminate foods if they do not thoroughly wash their hands after using the bathroom and before handling food.
                
Trichinella spiralis is a type of roundworm parasite. People may be infected with this parasite by consuming raw or undercooked pork or wild game.
                
Chemicals
                
Harmful chemicals that cause illness may contaminate foods such as
                
- fish or shellfish, which may feed on algae that produce toxins, leading to high concentrations of toxins in their bodies. Some types of fish, including tuna and mahi mahi, may be contaminated with bacteria that produce toxins if the fish are not properly refrigerated before they are cooked or served.  - certain types of wild mushrooms.  - unwashed fruits and vegetables that contain high concentrations of pesticides.

Question: What causes Cyclic Vomiting Syndrome ?
Answer: The cause of cyclic vomiting syndrome is unknown. However, some experts believe that some possible problems with bodily functions may contribute to the cause, such as the following:
                
- gastrointestinal motilitythe way food moves through the digestive system  - central nervous system functionincludes the brain, spinal cord, and nerves that control bodily responses  - autonomic nervous system functionnerves that control internal organs such as the heart  - hormone imbalanceshormones are a chemical produced in one part of the body and released into the blood to trigger or regulate particular bodily functions  - in children, an abnormal inherited gene may also contribute to the condition
                
Specific conditions or events may trigger an episode of cyclic vomiting:
                
- emotional stress, anxiety, or panic attacksfor example, in children, common triggers of anticipatory anxiety are school exams or events, birthday parties, holidays, family conflicts, or travel  - infections, such as a sinus infection, a respiratory infection, or the flu  - eating certain foods, such as chocolate or cheese, or additives such as caffeine, nitritescommonly found in cured meats such as hot dogsand monosodium glutamate, also called MSG  - hot weather  - menstrual periods  - motion sickness  - overeating, fasting, or eating right before bedtime  - physical exhaustion or too much exercise

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Type 1 diabetes is caused by a lack of insulin due to the destruction of insulin-producing beta cells in the pancreas. In type 1 diabetesan autoimmune diseasethe bodys immune system attacks and destroys the beta cells. Normally, the immune system protects the body from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. But in autoimmune diseases, the immune system attacks the bodys own cells. In type 1 diabetes, beta cell destruction may take place over several years, but symptoms of the disease usually develop over a short period of time.
                
Type 1 diabetes typically occurs in children and young adults, though it can appear at any age. In the past, type 1 diabetes was called juvenile diabetes or insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
                
Latent autoimmune diabetes in adults (LADA) may be a slowly developing kind of type 1 diabetes. Diagnosis usually occurs after age 30. In LADA, as in type 1 diabetes, the bodys immune system destroys the beta cells. At the time of diagnosis, people with LADA may still produce their own insulin, but eventually most will need insulin shots or an insulin pump to control blood glucose levels.
                
Genetic Susceptibility
                
Heredity plays an important part in determining who is likely to develop type 1 diabetes. Genes are passed down from biological parent to child. Genes carry instructions for making proteins that are needed for the bodys cells to function. Many genes, as well as interactions among genes, are thought to influence susceptibility to and protection from type 1 diabetes. The key genes may vary in different population groups. Variations in genes that affect more than 1 percent of a population group are called gene variants.
                
Certain gene variants that carry instructions for making proteins called human leukocyte antigens (HLAs) on white blood cells are linked to the risk of developing type 1 diabetes. The proteins produced by HLA genes help determine whether the immune system recognizes a cell as part of the body or as foreign material. Some combinations of HLA gene variants predict that a person will be at higher risk for type 1 diabetes, while other combinations are protective or have no effect on risk.
                
While HLA genes are the major risk genes for type 1 diabetes, many additional risk genes or gene regions have been found. Not only can these genes help identify people at risk for type 1 diabetes, but they also provide important clues to help scientists better understand how the disease develops and identify potential targets for therapy and prevention.
                
Genetic testing can show what types of HLA genes a person carries and can reveal other genes linked to diabetes. However, most genetic testing is done in a research setting and is not yet available to individuals. Scientists are studying how the results of genetic testing can be used to improve type 1 diabetes prevention or treatment.
                
Autoimmune Destruction of Beta Cells
                
In type 1 diabetes, white blood cells called T cells attack and destroy beta cells. The process begins well before diabetes symptoms appear and continues after diagnosis. Often, type 1 diabetes is not diagnosed until most beta cells have already been destroyed. At this point, a person needs daily insulin treatment to survive. Finding ways to modify or stop this autoimmune process and preserve beta cell function is a major focus of current scientific research.
                
Recent research suggests insulin itself may be a key trigger of the immune attack on beta cells. The immune systems of people who are susceptible to developing type 1 diabetes respond to insulin as if it were a foreign substance, or antigen. To combat antigens, the body makes proteins called antibodies. Antibodies to insulin and other proteins produced by beta cells are found in people with type 1 diabetes. Researchers test for these antibodies to help identify people at increased risk of developing the disease. Testing the types and levels of antibodies in the blood can help determine whether a person has type 1 diabetes, LADA, or another type of diabetes.
                
Environmental Factors
                
Environmental factors, such as foods, viruses, and toxins, may play a role in the development of type 1 diabetes, but the exact nature of their role has not been determined. Some theories suggest that environmental factors trigger the autoimmune destruction of beta cells in people with a genetic susceptibility to diabetes. Other theories suggest that environmental factors play an ongoing role in diabetes, even after diagnosis.
                
Viruses and infections. A virus cannot cause diabetes on its own, but people are sometimes diagnosed with type 1 diabetes during or after a viral infection, suggesting a link between the two. Also, the onset of type 1 diabetes occurs more frequently during the winter when viral infections are more common. Viruses possibly associated with type 1 diabetes include coxsackievirus B, cytomegalovirus, adenovirus, rubella, and mumps. Scientists have described several ways these viruses may damage or destroy beta cells or possibly trigger an autoimmune response in susceptible people. For example, anti-islet antibodies have been found in patients with congenital rubella syndrome, and cytomegalovirus has been associated with significant beta cell damage and acute pancreatitisinflammation of the pancreas. Scientists are trying to identify a virus that can cause type 1 diabetes so that a vaccine might be developed to prevent the disease.
                
Infant feeding practices. Some studies have suggested that dietary factors may raise or lower the risk of developing type 1 diabetes. For example, breastfed infants and infants receiving vitamin D supplements may have a reduced risk of developing type 1 diabetes, while early exposure to cows milk and cereal proteins may increase risk. More research is needed to clarify how infant nutrition affects the risk for type 1 diabetes.
                
Read more in the Centers for Disease Control and Preventions (CDCs) publication  National Diabetes Statistics Report, 2014 at  www.cdc.gov for information about research studies related to type 1 diabetes.

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Type 2 diabetesthe most common form of diabetesis caused by a combination of factors, including insulin resistance, a condition in which the bodys muscle, fat, and liver cells do not use insulin effectively. Type 2 diabetes develops when the body can no longer produce enough insulin to compensate for the impaired ability to use insulin. Symptoms of type 2 diabetes may develop gradually and can be subtle; some people with type 2 diabetes remain undiagnosed for years.
                
Type 2 diabetes develops most often in middle-aged and older people who are also overweight or obese. The disease, once rare in youth, is becoming more common in overweight and obese children and adolescents. Scientists think genetic susceptibility and environmental factors are the most likely triggers of type 2 diabetes.
                
Genetic Susceptibility
                
Genes play a significant part in susceptibility to type 2 diabetes. Having certain genes or combinations of genes may increase or decrease a persons risk for developing the disease. The role of genes is suggested by the high rate of type 2 diabetes in families and identical twins and wide variations in diabetes prevalence by ethnicity. Type 2 diabetes occurs more frequently in African Americans, Alaska Natives, American Indians, Hispanics/Latinos, and some Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islander Americans than it does in non-Hispanic whites.
                
Recent studies have combined genetic data from large numbers of people, accelerating the pace of gene discovery. Though scientists have now identified many gene variants that increase susceptibility to type 2 diabetes, the majority have yet to be discovered. The known genes appear to affect insulin production rather than insulin resistance. Researchers are working to identify additional gene variants and to learn how they interact with one another and with environmental factors to cause diabetes.
                
Studies have shown that variants of the TCF7L2 gene increase susceptibility to type 2 diabetes. For people who inherit two copies of the variants, the risk of developing type 2 diabetes is about 80 percent higher than for those who do not carry the gene variant.1 However, even in those with the variant, diet and physical activity leading to weight loss help delay diabetes, according to the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP), a major clinical trial involving people at high risk.
                
Genes can also increase the risk of diabetes by increasing a persons tendency to become overweight or obese. One theory, known as the thrifty gene hypothesis, suggests certain genes increase the efficiency of metabolism to extract energy from food and store the energy for later use. This survival trait was advantageous for populations whose food supplies were scarce or unpredictable and could help keep people alive during famine. In modern times, however, when high-calorie foods are plentiful, such a trait can promote obesity and type 2 diabetes.
                
Obesity and Physical Inactivity
                
Physical inactivity and obesity are strongly associated with the development of type 2 diabetes. People who are genetically susceptible to type 2 diabetes are more vulnerable when these risk factors are present.
                
An imbalance between caloric intake and physical activity can lead to obesity, which causes insulin resistance and is common in people with type 2 diabetes. Central obesity, in which a person has excess abdominal fat, is a major risk factor not only for insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes but also for heart and blood vessel disease, also called cardiovascular disease (CVD). This excess belly fat produces hormones and other substances that can cause harmful, chronic effects in the body such as damage to blood vessels.
                
The DPP and other studies show that millions of people can lower their risk for type 2 diabetes by making lifestyle changes and losing weight. The DPP proved that people with prediabetesat high risk of developing type 2 diabetescould sharply lower their risk by losing weight through regular physical activity and a diet low in fat and calories. In 2009, a follow-up study of DPP participantsthe Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study (DPPOS)showed that the benefits of weight loss lasted for at least 10 years after the original study began.2
                
Read more about the DPP, funded under National Institutes of Health (NIH) clinical trial number NCT00004992, and the DPPOS, funded under NIH clinical trial number NCT00038727 in  Diabetes Prevention Program.
                
Insulin Resistance
                
Insulin resistance is a common condition in people who are overweight or obese, have excess abdominal fat, and are not physically active. Muscle, fat, and liver cells stop responding properly to insulin, forcing the pancreas to compensate by producing extra insulin. As long as beta cells are able to produce enough insulin, blood glucose levels stay in the normal range. But when insulin production falters because of beta cell dysfunction, glucose levels rise, leading to prediabetes or diabetes.
                
Abnormal Glucose Production by the Liver
                
In some people with diabetes, an abnormal increase in glucose production by the liver also contributes to high blood glucose levels. Normally, the pancreas releases the hormone glucagon when blood glucose and insulin levels are low. Glucagon stimulates the liver to produce glucose and release it into the bloodstream. But when blood glucose and insulin levels are high after a meal, glucagon levels drop, and the liver stores excess glucose for later, when it is needed. For reasons not completely understood, in many people with diabetes, glucagon levels stay higher than needed. High glucagon levels cause the liver to produce unneeded glucose, which contributes to high blood glucose levels. Metformin, the most commonly used drug to treat type 2 diabetes, reduces glucose production by the liver.
                
The Roles of Insulin and Glucagon in Normal Blood Glucose Regulation
                
A healthy persons body keeps blood glucose levels in a normal range through several complex mechanisms. Insulin and glucagon, two hormones made in the pancreas, help regulate blood glucose levels:
                
- Insulin, made by beta cells, lowers elevated blood glucose levels.  - Glucagon, made by alpha cells, raises low blood glucose levels.
                
- Insulin helps muscle, fat, and liver cells absorb glucose from the bloodstream, lowering blood glucose levels.  - Insulin stimulates the liver and muscle tissue to store excess glucose. The stored form of glucose is called glycogen.  - Insulin also lowers blood glucose levels by reducing glucose production in the liver.
                
- Glucagon signals the liver and muscle tissue to break down glycogen into glucose, which enters the bloodstream and raises blood glucose levels.  - If the body needs more glucose, glucagon stimulates the liver to make glucose from amino acids.
                
Metabolic Syndrome
                
Metabolic syndrome, also called insulin resistance syndrome, refers to a group of conditions common in people with insulin resistance, including
                
- higher than normal blood glucose levels  - increased waist size due to excess abdominal fat  - high blood pressure  - abnormal levels of cholesterol and triglycerides in the blood
                
Cell Signaling and Regulation
                
Cells communicate through a complex network of molecular signaling pathways. For example, on cell surfaces, insulin receptor molecules capture, or bind, insulin molecules circulating in the bloodstream. This interaction between insulin and its receptor prompts the biochemical signals that enable the cells to absorb glucose from the blood and use it for energy.
                
Problems in cell signaling systems can set off a chain reaction that leads to diabetes or other diseases. Many studies have focused on how insulin signals cells to communicate and regulate action. Researchers have identified proteins and pathways that transmit the insulin signal and have mapped interactions between insulin and body tissues, including the way insulin helps the liver control blood glucose levels. Researchers have also found that key signals also come from fat cells, which produce substances that cause inflammation and insulin resistance.
                
This work holds the key to combating insulin resistance and diabetes. As scientists learn more about cell signaling systems involved in glucose regulation, they will have more opportunities to develop effective treatments.
                
Beta Cell Dysfunction
                
Scientists think beta cell dysfunction is a key contributor to type 2 diabetes. Beta cell impairment can cause inadequate or abnormal patterns of insulin release. Also, beta cells may be damaged by high blood glucose itself, a condition called glucose toxicity.
                
Scientists have not determined the causes of beta cell dysfunction in most cases. Single gene defects lead to specific forms of diabetes called maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY). The genes involved regulate insulin production in the beta cells. Although these forms of diabetes are rare, they provide clues as to how beta cell function may be affected by key regulatory factors. Other gene variants are involved in determining the number and function of beta cells. But these variants account for only a small percentage of type 2 diabetes cases. Malnutrition early in life is also being investigated as a cause of beta cell dysfunction. The metabolic environment of the developing fetus may also create a predisposition for diabetes later in life.
                
Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
                
People who develop type 2 diabetes are more likely to have the following characteristics:
                
- age 45 or older  - overweight or obese  - physically inactive  - parent or sibling with diabetes  - family background that is African American, Alaska Native, American Indian, Asian American, Hispanic/Latino, or Pacific Islander American  - history of giving birth to a baby weighing more than 9 pounds  - history of gestational diabetes  - high blood pressure140/90 or aboveor being treated for high blood pressure  - high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good, cholesterol below 35 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL), or a triglyceride level above 250 mg/dL  - polycystic ovary syndrome, also called PCOS  - prediabetesan A1C level of 5.7 to 6.4 percent; a fasting plasma glucose test result of 100125 mg/dL, called impaired fasting glucose; or a 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test result of 140199, called impaired glucose tolerance  - acanthosis nigricans, a condition associated with insulin resistance, characterized by a dark, velvety rash around the neck or armpits  - history of CVD
                
The American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends that testing to detect prediabetes and type 2 diabetes be considered in adults who are overweight or obese and have one or more additional risk factors for diabetes. In adults without these risk factors, testing should begin at age 45.

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Insulin Resistance and Beta Cell Dysfunction
                
Hormones produced by the placenta and other pregnancy-related factors contribute to insulin resistance, which occurs in all women during late pregnancy. Insulin resistance increases the amount of insulin needed to control blood glucose levels. If the pancreas cant produce enough insulin due to beta cell dysfunction, gestational diabetes occurs.
                
As with type 2 diabetes, excess weight is linked to gestational diabetes. Overweight or obese women are at particularly high risk for gestational diabetes because they start pregnancy with a higher need for insulin due to insulin resistance. Excessive weight gain during pregnancy may also increase risk.
                
Family History
                
Having a family history of diabetes is also a risk factor for gestational diabetes, suggesting that genes play a role in its development. Genetics may also explain why the disorder occurs more frequently in African Americans, American Indians, and Hispanics/Latinos. Many gene variants or combinations of variants may increase a womans risk for developing gestational diabetes. Studies have found several gene variants associated with gestational diabetes, but these variants account for only a small fraction of women with gestational diabetes.
                
Future Risk of Type 2 Diabetes
                
Because a womans hormones usually return to normal levels soon after giving birth, gestational diabetes disappears in most women after delivery. However, women who have gestational diabetes are more likely to develop gestational diabetes with future pregnancies and develop type 2 diabetes.3 Women with gestational diabetes should be tested for persistent diabetes 6 to 12 weeks after delivery and at least every 3 years thereafter.
                
Also, exposure to high glucose levels during gestation increases a childs risk for becoming overweight or obese and for developing type 2 diabetes later on. The result may be a cycle of diabetes affecting multiple generations in a family. For both mother and child, maintaining a healthy body weight and being physically active may help prevent type 2 diabetes.

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Other types of diabetes have a variety of possible causes.
                
Genetic Mutations Affecting Beta Cells, Insulin, and Insulin Action
                
Some relatively uncommon forms of diabetes known as monogenic diabetes are caused by mutations, or changes, in a single gene. These mutations are usually inherited, but sometimes the gene mutation occurs spontaneously. Most of these gene mutations cause diabetes by reducing beta cells ability to produce insulin.
                
The most common types of monogenic diabetes are neonatal diabetes mellitus (NDM) and MODY. NDM occurs in the first 6 months of life. MODY is usually found during adolescence or early adulthood but sometimes is not diagnosed until later in life. More information about NDM and MODY is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Monogenic Forms of Diabetes.
                
Other rare genetic mutations can cause diabetes by damaging the quality of insulin the body produces or by causing abnormalities in insulin receptors.
                
Other Genetic Diseases
                
Diabetes occurs in people with Down syndrome, Klinefelter syndrome, and Turner syndrome at higher rates than the general population. Scientists are investigating whether genes that may predispose people to genetic syndromes also predispose them to diabetes.
                
The genetic disorders cystic fibrosis and hemochromatosis are linked to diabetes. Cystic fibrosis produces abnormally thick mucus, which blocks the pancreas. The risk of diabetes increases with age in people with cystic fibrosis. Hemochromatosis causes the body to store too much iron. If the disorder is not treated, iron can build up in and damage the pancreas and other organs.
                
Damage to or Removal of the Pancreas
                
Pancreatitis, cancer, and trauma can all harm the pancreatic beta cells or impair insulin production, thus causing diabetes. If the damaged pancreas is removed, diabetes will occur due to the loss of the beta cells.
                
Endocrine Diseases
                
Endocrine diseases affect organs that produce hormones. Cushings syndrome and acromegaly are examples of hormonal disorders that can cause prediabetes and diabetes by inducing insulin resistance. Cushings syndrome is marked by excessive production of cortisolsometimes called the stress hormone. Acromegaly occurs when the body produces too much growth hormone. Glucagonoma, a rare tumor of the pancreas, can also cause diabetes. The tumor causes the body to produce too much glucagon. Hyperthyroidism, a disorder that occurs when the thyroid gland produces too much thyroid hormone, can also cause elevated blood glucose levels.
                
Autoimmune Disorders
                
Rare disorders characterized by antibodies that disrupt insulin action can lead to diabetes. This kind of diabetes is often associated with other autoimmune disorders such as lupus erythematosus. Another rare autoimmune disorder called stiff-man syndrome is associated with antibodies that attack the beta cells, similar to type 1 diabetes.
                
Medications and Chemical Toxins
                
Some medications, such as nicotinic acid and certain types of diuretics, anti-seizure drugs, psychiatric drugs, and drugs to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), can impair beta cells or disrupt insulin action. Pentamidine, a drug prescribed to treat a type of pneumonia, can increase the risk of pancreatitis, beta cell damage, and diabetes. Also, glucocorticoidssteroid hormones that are chemically similar to naturally produced cortisolmay impair insulin action. Glucocorticoids are used to treat inflammatory illnesses such as rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, lupus, and ulcerative colitis.
                
Many chemical toxins can damage or destroy beta cells in animals, but only a few have been linked to diabetes in humans. For example, dioxina contaminant of the herbicide Agent Orange, used during the Vietnam Warmay be linked to the development of type 2 diabetes. In 2000, based on a report from the Institute of Medicine, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) added diabetes to the list of conditions for which Vietnam veterans are eligible for disability compensation. Also, a chemical in a rat poison no longer in use has been shown to cause diabetes if ingested. Some studies suggest a high intake of nitrogen-containing chemicals such as nitrates and nitrites might increase the risk of diabetes. Arsenic has also been studied for possible links to diabetes.
                
Lipodystrophy
                
Lipodystrophy is a condition in which fat tissue is lost or redistributed in the body. The condition is associated with insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Other types of diabetes have a variety of possible causes.
                
Genetic Mutations Affecting Beta Cells, Insulin, and Insulin Action
                
Some relatively uncommon forms of diabetes known as monogenic diabetes are caused by mutations, or changes, in a single gene. These mutations are usually inherited, but sometimes the gene mutation occurs spontaneously. Most of these gene mutations cause diabetes by reducing beta cells ability to produce insulin.
                
The most common types of monogenic diabetes are neonatal diabetes mellitus (NDM) and MODY. NDM occurs in the first 6 months of life. MODY is usually found during adolescence or early adulthood but sometimes is not diagnosed until later in life. More information about NDM and MODY is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Monogenic Forms of Diabetes.
                
Other rare genetic mutations can cause diabetes by damaging the quality of insulin the body produces or by causing abnormalities in insulin receptors.
                
Other Genetic Diseases
                
Diabetes occurs in people with Down syndrome, Klinefelter syndrome, and Turner syndrome at higher rates than the general population. Scientists are investigating whether genes that may predispose people to genetic syndromes also predispose them to diabetes.
                
The genetic disorders cystic fibrosis and hemochromatosis are linked to diabetes. Cystic fibrosis produces abnormally thick mucus, which blocks the pancreas. The risk of diabetes increases with age in people with cystic fibrosis. Hemochromatosis causes the body to store too much iron. If the disorder is not treated, iron can build up in and damage the pancreas and other organs.
                
Damage to or Removal of the Pancreas
                
Pancreatitis, cancer, and trauma can all harm the pancreatic beta cells or impair insulin production, thus causing diabetes. If the damaged pancreas is removed, diabetes will occur due to the loss of the beta cells.
                
Endocrine Diseases
                
Endocrine diseases affect organs that produce hormones. Cushings syndrome and acromegaly are examples of hormonal disorders that can cause prediabetes and diabetes by inducing insulin resistance. Cushings syndrome is marked by excessive production of cortisolsometimes called the stress hormone. Acromegaly occurs when the body produces too much growth hormone. Glucagonoma, a rare tumor of the pancreas, can also cause diabetes. The tumor causes the body to produce too much glucagon. Hyperthyroidism, a disorder that occurs when the thyroid gland produces too much thyroid hormone, can also cause elevated blood glucose levels.
                
Autoimmune Disorders
                
Rare disorders characterized by antibodies that disrupt insulin action can lead to diabetes. This kind of diabetes is often associated with other autoimmune disorders such as lupus erythematosus. Another rare autoimmune disorder called stiff-man syndrome is associated with antibodies that attack the beta cells, similar to type 1 diabetes.
                
Medications and Chemical Toxins
                
Some medications, such as nicotinic acid and certain types of diuretics, anti-seizure drugs, psychiatric drugs, and drugs to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), can impair beta cells or disrupt insulin action. Pentamidine, a drug prescribed to treat a type of pneumonia, can increase the risk of pancreatitis, beta cell damage, and diabetes. Also, glucocorticoidssteroid hormones that are chemically similar to naturally produced cortisolmay impair insulin action. Glucocorticoids are used to treat inflammatory illnesses such as rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, lupus, and ulcerative colitis.
                
Many chemical toxins can damage or destroy beta cells in animals, but only a few have been linked to diabetes in humans. For example, dioxina contaminant of the herbicide Agent Orange, used during the Vietnam Warmay be linked to the development of type 2 diabetes. In 2000, based on a report from the Institute of Medicine, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) added diabetes to the list of conditions for which Vietnam veterans are eligible for disability compensation. Also, a chemical in a rat poison no longer in use has been shown to cause diabetes if ingested. Some studies suggest a high intake of nitrogen-containing chemicals such as nitrates and nitrites might increase the risk of diabetes. Arsenic has also been studied for possible links to diabetes.
                
Lipodystrophy
                
Lipodystrophy is a condition in which fat tissue is lost or redistributed in the body. The condition is associated with insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.

Question: What causes Urinary Retention ?
Answer: Urinary retention can result from
                
- obstruction of the urethra  - nerve problems  - medications  - weakened bladder muscles
                
Obstruction of the Urethra
                
Obstruction of the urethra causes urinary retention by blocking the normal urine flow out of the body. Conditions such as benign prostatic hyperplasiaalso called BPHurethral stricture, urinary tract stones, cystocele, rectocele, constipation, and certain tumors and cancers can cause an obstruction.
                
Benign prostatic hyperplasia. For men in their 50s and 60s, urinary retention is often caused by prostate enlargement due to benign prostatic hyperplasia. Benign prostatic hyperplasia is a medical condition in which the prostate gland is enlarged and not cancerous. The prostate is a walnut-shaped gland that is part of the male reproductive system. The gland surrounds the urethra at the neck of the bladder. The bladder neck is the area where the urethra joins the bladder. The prostate goes through two main periods of growth. The first occurs early in puberty, when the prostate doubles in size. The second phase of growth begins around age 25 and continues during most of a mans life. Benign prostatic hyperplasia often occurs with the second phase of growth.
                
As the prostate enlarges, the gland presses against and pinches the urethra. The bladder wall becomes thicker. Eventually, the bladder may weaken and lose the ability to empty completely, leaving some urine in the bladder.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Prostate Enlargement: Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia.
                
Urethral stricture. A urethral stricture is a narrowing or closure of the urethra. Causes of urethral stricture include inflammation and scar tissue from surgery, disease, recurring UTIs, or injury. In men, a urethral stricture may result from prostatitis, scarring after an injury to the penis or perineum, or surgery for benign prostatic hyperplasia and prostate cancer. Prostatitis is a frequently painful condition that involves inflammation of the prostate and sometimes the areas around the prostate. The perineum is the area between the anus and the sex organs. Since men have a longer urethra than women, urethral stricture is more common in men than women.1
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Prostatitis: Inflammation of the Prostate.
                
Surgery to correct pelvic organ prolapse, such as cystocele and rectocele, and urinary incontinence can also cause urethral stricture. The urethral stricture often gets better a few weeks after surgery.
                
Urethral stricture and acute or chronic urinary retention may occur when the muscles surrounding the urethra do not relax. This condition happens mostly in women.
                
Urinary tract stones. Urinary tract stones develop from crystals that form in the urine and build up on the inner surfaces of the kidneys, ureters, or bladder. The stones formed or lodged in the bladder may block the opening to the urethra.
                
Cystocele. A cystocele is a bulging of the bladder into the vagina. A cystocele occurs when the muscles and supportive tissues between a womans bladder and vagina weaken and stretch, letting the bladder sag from its normal position and bulge into the vagina. The abnormal position of the bladder may cause it to press against and pinch the urethra.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Cystocele.
                
Rectocele. A rectocele is a bulging of the rectum into the vagina. A rectocele occurs when the muscles and supportive tissues between a womans rectum and vagina weaken and stretch, letting the rectum sag from its normal position and bulge into the vagina. The abnormal position of the rectum may cause it to press against and pinch the urethra.
                
Constipation. Constipation is a condition in which a person has fewer than three bowel movements a week or has bowel movements with stools that are hard, dry, and small, making them painful or difficult to pass. A person with constipation may feel bloated or have pain in the abdomen the area between the chest and hips. Some people with constipation often have to strain to have a bowel movement. Hard stools in the rectum may push against the bladder and urethra, causing the urethra to be pinched, especially if a rectocele is present.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Constipation.
                
Tumors and cancers. Tumors and cancerous tissues in the bladder or urethra can gradually expand and obstruct urine flow by pressing against and pinching the urethra or by blocking the bladder outlet. Tumors may be cancerous or noncancerous.
                
Nerve Problems
                
Urinary retention can result from problems with the nerves that control the bladder and sphincters. Many events or conditions can interfere with nerve signals between the brain and the bladder and sphincters. If the nerves are damaged, the brain may not get the signal that the bladder is full. Even when a person has a full bladder, the bladder muscles that squeeze urine out may not get the signal to push, or the sphincters may not get the signal to relax. People of all ages can have nerve problems that interfere with bladder function. Some of the most common causes of nerve problems include
                
- vaginal childbirth  - brain or spinal cord infections or injuries  - diabetes  - stroke  - multiple sclerosis  - pelvic injury or trauma  - heavy metal poisoning
                
In addition, some children are born with defects that affect the coordination of nerve signals among the bladder, spinal cord, and brain. Spina bifida and other birth defects that affect the spinal cord can lead to urinary retention in newborns.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics, Nerve Disease and Bladder Control and Urine Blockage in Newborns.
                
Many patients have urinary retention right after surgery. During surgery, anesthesia is often used to block pain signals in the nerves, and fluid is given intravenously to compensate for possible blood loss. The combination of anesthesia and intravenous (IV) fluid may result in a full bladder with impaired nerve function, causing urinary retention. Normal bladder nerve function usually returns once anesthesia wears off. The patient will then be able to empty the bladder completely.
                
Medications
                
Various classes of medications can cause urinary retention by interfering with nerve signals to the bladder and prostate. These medications include
                
- antihistamines to treat allergies      - cetirizine (Zyrtec)    - chlorpheniramine (Chlor-Trimeton)    - diphenhydramine (Benadryl)    - fexofenadine (Allegra)    - anticholinergics/antispasmodics to treat stomach cramps, muscle spasms, and urinary incontinence      - hyoscyamine (Levbid)    - oxybutynin (Ditropan)    - propantheline (Pro-Banthine)    - tolterodine (Detrol)    - tricyclic antidepressants to treat anxiety and depression      - amitriptyline (Elavil)    - doxepin (Adapin)    - imipramine (Tofranil)    - nortriptyline (Pamelor)
                
Other medications associated with urinary retention include
                
- decongestants      - ephedrine    - phenylephrine    - pseudoephedrine    - nifedipine (Procardia), a medication to treat high blood pressure and chest pain  - carbamazepine (Tegretol), a medication to control seizures in people with epilepsy  - cyclobenzaprine (Flexeril), a muscle relaxant medication  - diazepam (Valium), a medication used to relieve anxiety, muscle spasms, and seizures  - nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs  - amphetamines  - opioid analgesics
                
Over-the-counter cold and allergy medications that contain decongestants, such as pseudoephedrine, and antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine, can increase symptoms of urinary retention in men with prostate enlargement.
                
Weakened Bladder Muscles
                
Aging is a common cause of weakened bladder muscles. Weakened bladder muscles may not contract strongly enough or long enough to empty the bladder completely, resulting in urinary retention.

Question: What causes Nephrotic Syndrome in Adults ?
Answer: Nephrotic syndrome can be caused by diseases that affect only the kidneys, such as focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) or membranous nephropathy. Diseases that affect only the kidneys are called primary causes of nephrotic syndrome. The glomeruli are usually the targets of these diseases for reasons that are not fully understood. In FSGSthe most common primary cause of nephrotic syndromescar tissue forms in parts of the glomeruli. In membranous nephropathy, immune molecules form harmful deposits on the glomeruli.
                
Nephrotic syndrome can also be caused by systemic diseases, which are diseases that affect many parts of the body, such as diabetes or lupus. Systemic diseases that affect the kidneys are called secondary causes of nephrotic syndrome. More than 50 percent of nephrotic syndrome cases in adults have secondary causes, with diabetes being the most common.1

Question: What causes What I need to know about Diarrhea ?
Answer: Causes of diarrhea include
                
- bacteria from contaminated food or water  - viruses that cause illnesses such as the flu  - parasites, which are tiny organisms found in contaminated food or water  - medicines such as antibiotics  - problems digesting certain foods  - diseases that affect the stomach, small intestine, or colon, such as Crohns disease  - problems with how the colon functions, caused by disorders such as irritable bowel syndrome
                
Sometimes no cause can be found. As long as diarrhea goes away within 1 to 2 days, finding the cause is not usually necessary.

Question: What causes Alagille Syndrome ?
Answer: Alagille syndrome is caused by a gene mutation, or defect. Genes provide instructions for making proteins in the body. A gene mutation is a permanent change in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene. DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is the material inside cells that carries genetic information and passes genes from parent to child. Approximately 30 to 50 percent of people with Alagille syndrome have an inherited gene mutation, meaning it has been passed on by a parent. In the remaining cases, the gene mutation develops spontaneously.1 In spontaneous cases, neither parent carries a copy of the mutated gene.
                
Most cases of Alagille syndrome are caused by a mutation in the JAGGED1 (JAG1) gene. In less than 1 percent of cases, a mutation in the NOTCH2 gene is the cause.2
                

                
Genetic Disorders   Each cell contains thousands of genes that provide the instructions for making proteins for growth and repair of the body. If a gene has a mutation, the protein made by that gene may not function properly, which sometimes creates a genetic disorder. Not all gene mutations cause a disorder.   People have two copies of most genes; one copy is inherited from each parent. A genetic disorder occurs when one or both parents pass a mutated gene to a child at conception. A genetic disorder can also occur through a spontaneous gene mutation, meaning neither parent carries a copy of the mutated gene. Once a spontaneous gene mutation has occurred in a person, it can be passed to the person's children.   Read more about genes and genetic conditions at the U.S. National Library of Medicine's (NLM's) Genetics Home Reference at www.ghr.nlm.nih.gov.

Question: What causes Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your heart and blood vessels healthy ?
Answer: Narrowed blood vessels leave a smaller opening for blood to flow through. Having narrowed blood vessels is like turning on a garden hose and holding your thumb over the opening. The smaller opening makes the water shoot out with more pressure. In the same way, narrowed blood vessels lead to high blood pressure. Other factors, such as kidney problems and being overweight, also can lead to high blood pressure.
                
Many people with diabetes also have high blood pressure. If you have heart, eye, or kidney problems from diabetes, high blood pressure can make them worse.
                
You will see your blood pressure written with two numbers separated by a slash. For example, your reading might be 120/70, said as "120 over 70." For most people with diabetes, the target is to keep the first number below 140 and the second number below 80, unless their doctor sets a different target.
                
If you have high blood pressure, ask your doctor how to lower it. Your doctor may ask you to take blood pressure medicine every day. Some types of blood pressure medicine can also help keep your kidneys healthy.
                
You may also be able to control your blood pressure by
                
- eating more fruits and vegetables  - eating less salt and high-sodium foods  - losing weight if you need to  - being physically active  - not smoking  - limiting alcoholic drinks

Question: What causes Primary Hyperparathyroidism ?
Answer: In about 80 percent of people with primary hyperparathyroidism, a benign, or noncancerous, tumor called an adenoma has formed in one of the parathyroid glands.2 The tumor causes the gland to become overactive. In most other cases, the excess hormone comes from two or more overactive parathyroid glands, a condition called multiple tumors or hyperplasia. Rarely, primary hyperparathyroidism is caused by cancer of a parathyroid gland.
                
In most cases, health care providers dont know why adenoma or multiple tumors occur in the parathyroid glands. Most people with primary hyperparathyroidism have no family history of the disorder, but some cases can be linked to an inherited problem. For example, familial multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 is a rare, inherited syndrome that causes multiple tumors in the parathyroid glands as well as in the pancreas and the pituitary gland. Another rare genetic disorder, familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia, causes a kind of hyperparathyroidism that is atypical, in part because it does not respond to standard parathyroid surgery.

Question: What causes Urinary Incontinence in Men ?
Answer: Urinary incontinence in men results when the brain does not properly signal the bladder, the sphincters do not squeeze strongly enough, or both. The bladder muscle may contract too much or not enough because of a problem with the muscle itself or the nerves controlling the bladder muscle. Damage to the sphincter muscles themselves or the nerves controlling these muscles can result in poor sphincter function. These problems can range from simple to complex.
                
A man may have factors that increase his chances of developing UI, including
                
- birth defectsproblems with development of the urinary tract  - a history of prostate cancersurgery or radiation treatment for prostate cancer can lead to temporary or permanent UI in men
                
UI is not a disease. Instead, it can be a symptom of certain conditions or the result of particular events during a mans life. Conditions or events that may increase a mans chance of developing UI include
                
- benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)a condition in which the prostate is enlarged yet not cancerous. In men with BPH, the enlarged prostate presses against and pinches the urethra. The bladder wall becomes thicker. Eventually, the bladder may weaken and lose the ability to empty, leaving some urine in the bladder. The narrowing of the urethra and incomplete emptying of the bladder can lead to UI.  - chronic coughinglong-lasting coughing increases pressure on the bladder and pelvic floor muscles.  - neurological problemsmen with diseases or conditions that affect the brain and spine may have trouble controlling urination.  - physical inactivitydecreased activity can increase a mans weight and contribute to muscle weakness.  - obesityextra weight can put pressure on the bladder, causing a need to urinate before the bladder is full.  - older agebladder muscles can weaken over time, leading to a decrease in the bladders capacity to store urine.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics, Nerve Disease and Bladder Control and Prostate Enlargement: Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia.

Question: What causes Henoch-Schnlein Purpura ?
Answer: Henoch-Schnlein purpura is caused by an abnormal immune system response in which the bodys immune system attacks the bodys own cells and organs. Usually, the immune system makes antibodies, or proteins, to protect the body from foreign substances such as bacteria or viruses. In HSP, these antibodies attack the blood vessels. The factors that cause this immune system response are not known. However, in 30 to 50 percent of cases, people have an upper respiratory tract infection, such as a cold, before getting HSP.2 HSP has also been associated with
                
- infectious agents such as chickenpox, measles, hepatitis, and HIV viruses  - medications  - foods  - insect bites  - exposure to cold weather  - trauma
                
Genetics may increase the risk of HSP, as it has occurred in different members of the same family, including in twins.

Question: What causes Glomerular Diseases ?
Answer: A number of different diseases can result in glomerular disease. It may be the direct result of an infection or a drug toxic to the kidneys, or it may result from a disease that affects the entire body, like diabetes or lupus. Many different kinds of diseases can cause swelling or scarring of the nephron or glomerulus. Sometimes glomerular disease is idiopathic, meaning that it occurs without an apparent associated disease.
                
The categories presented below can overlap: that is, a disease might belong to two or more of the categories. For example, diabetic nephropathy is a form of glomerular disease that can be placed in two categories: systemic diseases, since diabetes itself is a systemic disease, and sclerotic diseases, because the specific damage done to the kidneys is associated with scarring.
                
Autoimmune Diseases
                
When the body's immune system functions properly, it creates protein-like substances called antibodies and immunoglobulins to protect the body against invading organisms. In an autoimmune disease, the immune system creates autoantibodies, which are antibodies or immunoglobulins that attack the body itself. Autoimmune diseases may be systemic and affect many parts of the body, or they may affect only specific organs or regions.
                
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) affects many parts of the body: primarily the skin and joints, but also the kidneys. Because women are more likely to develop SLE than men, some researchers believe that a sex-linked genetic factor may play a part in making a person susceptible, although viral infection has also been implicated as a triggering factor. Lupus nephritis is the name given to the kidney disease caused by SLE, and it occurs when autoantibodies form or are deposited in the glomeruli, causing inflammation. Ultimately, the inflammation may create scars that keep the kidneys from functioning properly. Conventional treatment for lupus nephritis includes a combination of two drugs, cyclophosphamide, a cytotoxic agent that suppresses the immune system, and prednisolone, a corticosteroid used to reduce inflammation. A newer immunosuppressant, mychophenolate mofetil (MMF), has been used instead of cyclophosphamide. Preliminary studies indicate that MMF may be as effective as cyclophosphamide and has milder side effects.
                
Goodpasture's Syndrome involves an autoantibody that specifically targets the kidneys and the lungs. Often, the first indication that patients have the autoantibody is when they cough up blood. But lung damage in Goodpasture's Syndrome is usually superficial compared with progressive and permanent damage to the kidneys. Goodpasture's Syndrome is a rare condition that affects mostly young men but also occurs in women, children, and older adults. Treatments include immunosuppressive drugs and a blood-cleaning therapy called plasmapheresis that removes the autoantibodies.
                
IgA nephropathy is a form of glomerular disease that results when immunoglobulin A (IgA) forms deposits in the glomeruli, where it creates inflammation. IgA nephropathy was not recognized as a cause of glomerular disease until the late 1960s, when sophisticated biopsy techniques were developed that could identify IgA deposits in kidney tissue.
                
The most common symptom of IgA nephropathy is blood in the urine, but it is often a silent disease that may go undetected for many years. The silent nature of the disease makes it difficult to determine how many people are in the early stages of IgA nephropathy, when specific medical tests are the only way to detect it. This disease is estimated to be the most common cause of primary glomerulonephritisthat is, glomerular disease not caused by a systemic disease like lupus or diabetes mellitus. It appears to affect men more than women. Although IgA nephropathy is found in all age groups, young people rarely display signs of kidney failure because the disease usually takes several years to progress to the stage where it causes detectable complications.
                
No treatment is recommended for early or mild cases of IgA nephropathy when the patient has normal blood pressure and less than 1 gram of protein in a 24-hour urine output. When proteinuria exceeds 1 gram/day, treatment is aimed at protecting kidney function by reducing proteinuria and controlling blood pressure. Blood pressure medicinesangiotensinconverting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs)that block a hormone called angiotensin are most effective at achieving those two goals simultaneously.
                

                
Hereditary NephritisAlport Syndrome
                
The primary indicator of Alport syndrome is a family history of chronic glomerular disease, although it may also involve hearing or vision impairment. This syndrome affects both men and women, but men are more likely to experience chronic kidney disease and sensory loss. Men with Alport syndrome usually first show evidence of renal insufficiency while in their twenties and reach total kidney failure by age 40. Women rarely have significant renal impairment, and hearing loss may be so slight that it can be detected only through testing with special equipment. Usually men can pass the disease only to their daughters. Women can transmit the disease to either their sons or their daughters. Treatment focuses on controlling blood pressure to maintain kidney function.
                
Infection-related Glomerular Disease
                
Glomerular disease sometimes develops rapidly after an infection in other parts of the body. Acute post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis (PSGN) can occur after an episode of strep throat or, in rare cases, impetigo (a skin infection). The Streptococcus bacteria do not attack the kidney directly, but an infection may stimulate the immune system to overproduce antibodies, which are circulated in the blood and finally deposited in the glomeruli, causing damage. PSGN can bring on sudden symptoms of swelling (edema), reduced urine output (oliguria), and blood in the urine (hematuria). Tests will show large amounts of protein in the urine and elevated levels of creatinine and urea nitrogen in the blood, thus indicating reduced kidney function. High blood pressure frequently accompanies reduced kidney function in this disease.
                
PSGN is most common in children between the ages of 3 and 7, although it can strike at any age, and it most often affects boys. It lasts only a brief time and usually allows the kidneys to recover. In a few cases, however, kidney damage may be permanent, requiring dialysis or transplantation to replace renal function.
                
Bacterial endocarditis, infection of the tissues inside the heart, is also associated with subsequent glomerular disease. Researchers are not sure whether the renal lesions that form after a heart infection are caused entirely by the immune response or whether some other disease mechanism contributes to kidney damage. Treating the heart infection is the most effective way of minimizing kidney damage. Endocarditis sometimes produces chronic kidney disease (CKD).
                
HIV, the virus that leads to AIDS, can also cause glomerular disease. Between 5 and 10 percent of people with HIV experience kidney failure, even before developing full-blown AIDS. HIV-associated nephropathy usually begins with heavy proteinuria and progresses rapidly (within a year of detection) to total kidney failure. Researchers are looking for therapies that can slow down or reverse this rapid deterioration of renal function, but some possible solutions involving immunosuppression are risky because of the patients' already compromised immune system.
                
Sclerotic Diseases
                
Glomerulosclerosis is scarring (sclerosis) of the glomeruli. In several sclerotic conditions, a systemic disease like lupus or diabetes is responsible. Glomerulosclerosis is caused by the activation of glomerular cells to produce scar material. This may be stimulated by molecules called growth factors, which may be made by glomerular cells themselves or may be brought to the glomerulus by the circulating blood that enters the glomerular filter.
                
Diabetic nephropathy is the leading cause of glomerular disease and of total kidney failure in the United States. Kidney disease is one of several problems caused by elevated levels of blood glucose, the central feature of diabetes. In addition to scarring the kidney, elevated glucose levels appear to increase the speed of blood flow into the kidney, putting a strain on the filtering glomeruli and raising blood pressure.
                
Diabetic nephropathy usually takes many years to develop. People with diabetes can slow down damage to their kidneys by controlling their blood glucose through healthy eating with moderate protein intake, physical activity, and medications. People with diabetes should also be careful to keep their blood pressure at a level below 140/90 mm Hg, if possible. Blood pressure medications called ACE inhibitors and ARBs are particularly effective at minimizing kidney damage and are now frequently prescribed to control blood pressure in patients with diabetes and in patients with many forms of kidney disease.
                
Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) describes scarring in scattered regions of the kidney, typically limited to one part of the glomerulus and to a minority of glomeruli in the affected region. FSGS may result from a systemic disorder or it may develop as an idiopathic kidney disease, without a known cause. Proteinuria is the most common symptom of FSGS, but, since proteinuria is associated with several other kidney conditions, the doctor cannot diagnose FSGS on the basis of proteinuria alone. Biopsy may confirm the presence of glomerular scarring if the tissue is taken from the affected section of the kidney. But finding the affected section is a matter of chance, especially early in the disease process, when lesions may be scattered.
                
Confirming a diagnosis of FSGS may require repeat kidney biopsies. Arriving at a diagnosis of idiopathic FSGS requires the identification of focal scarring and the elimination of possible systemic causes such as diabetes or an immune response to infection. Since idiopathic FSGS is, by definition, of unknown cause, it is difficult to treat. No universal remedy has been found, and most patients with FSGS progress to total kidney failure over 5 to 20 years. Some patients with an aggressive form of FSGS reach total kidney failure in 2 to 3 years. Treatments involving steroids or other immunosuppressive drugs appear to help some patients by decreasing proteinuria and improving kidney function. But these treatments are beneficial to only a minority of those in whom they are tried, and some patients experience even poorer kidney function as a result. ACE inhibitors and ARBs may also be used in FSGS to decrease proteinuria. Treatment should focus on controlling blood pressure and blood cholesterol levels, factors that may contribute to kidney scarring.
                
Other Glomerular Diseases
                
Membranous nephropathy, also called membranous glomerulopathy, is the second most common cause of the nephrotic syndrome (proteinuria, edema, high cholesterol) in U.S. adults after diabetic nephropathy. Diagnosis of membranous nephropathy requires a kidney biopsy, which reveals unusual deposits of immunoglobulin G and complement C3, substances created by the body's immune system. Fully 75 percent of cases are idiopathic, which means that the cause of the disease is unknown. The remaining 25 percent of cases are the result of other diseases like systemic lupus erythematosus, hepatitis B or C infection, or some forms of cancer. Drug therapies involving penicillamine, gold, or captopril have also been associated with membranous nephropathy. About 20 to 40 percent of patients with membranous nephropathy progress, usually over decades, to total kidney failure, but most patients experience either complete remission or continued symptoms without progressive kidney failure. Doctors disagree about how aggressively to treat this condition, since about 20 percent of patients recover without treatment. ACE inhibitors and ARBs are generally used to reduce proteinuria. Additional medication to control high blood pressure and edema is frequently required. Some patients benefit from steroids, but this treatment does not work for everyone. Additional immunosuppressive medications are helpful for some patients with progressive disease.
                
Minimal change disease (MCD) is the diagnosis given when a patient has the nephrotic syndrome and the kidney biopsy reveals little or no change to the structure of glomeruli or surrounding tissues when examined by a light microscope. Tiny drops of a fatty substance called a lipid may be present, but no scarring has taken place within the kidney. MCD may occur at any age, but it is most common in childhood. A small percentage of patients with idiopathic nephrotic syndrome do not respond to steroid therapy. For these patients, the doctor may recommend a low-sodium diet and prescribe a diuretic to control edema. The doctor may recommend the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs to reduce proteinuria. ACE inhibitors and ARBs have also been used to reduce proteinuria in patients with steroid-resistant MCD. These patients may respond to larger doses of steroids, more prolonged use of steroids, or steroids in combination with immunosuppressant drugs, such as chlorambucil, cyclophosphamide, or cyclosporine.

Question: What causes Glomerular Diseases ?
Answer: A number of different diseases can result in glomerular disease. It may be the direct result of an infection or a drug toxic to the kidneys, or it may result from a disease that affects the entire body, like diabetes or lupus. Many different kinds of diseases can cause swelling or scarring of the nephron or glomerulus. Sometimes glomerular disease is idiopathic, meaning that it occurs without an apparent associated disease.
                
The categories presented below can overlap: that is, a disease might belong to two or more of the categories. For example, diabetic nephropathy is a form of glomerular disease that can be placed in two categories: systemic diseases, since diabetes itself is a systemic disease, and sclerotic diseases, because the specific damage done to the kidneys is associated with scarring.
                
Autoimmune Diseases
                
When the body's immune system functions properly, it creates protein-like substances called antibodies and immunoglobulins to protect the body against invading organisms. In an autoimmune disease, the immune system creates autoantibodies, which are antibodies or immunoglobulins that attack the body itself. Autoimmune diseases may be systemic and affect many parts of the body, or they may affect only specific organs or regions.
                
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) affects many parts of the body: primarily the skin and joints, but also the kidneys. Because women are more likely to develop SLE than men, some researchers believe that a sex-linked genetic factor may play a part in making a person susceptible, although viral infection has also been implicated as a triggering factor. Lupus nephritis is the name given to the kidney disease caused by SLE, and it occurs when autoantibodies form or are deposited in the glomeruli, causing inflammation. Ultimately, the inflammation may create scars that keep the kidneys from functioning properly. Conventional treatment for lupus nephritis includes a combination of two drugs, cyclophosphamide, a cytotoxic agent that suppresses the immune system, and prednisolone, a corticosteroid used to reduce inflammation. A newer immunosuppressant, mychophenolate mofetil (MMF), has been used instead of cyclophosphamide. Preliminary studies indicate that MMF may be as effective as cyclophosphamide and has milder side effects.
                
Goodpasture's Syndrome involves an autoantibody that specifically targets the kidneys and the lungs. Often, the first indication that patients have the autoantibody is when they cough up blood. But lung damage in Goodpasture's Syndrome is usually superficial compared with progressive and permanent damage to the kidneys. Goodpasture's Syndrome is a rare condition that affects mostly young men but also occurs in women, children, and older adults. Treatments include immunosuppressive drugs and a blood-cleaning therapy called plasmapheresis that removes the autoantibodies.
                
IgA nephropathy is a form of glomerular disease that results when immunoglobulin A (IgA) forms deposits in the glomeruli, where it creates inflammation. IgA nephropathy was not recognized as a cause of glomerular disease until the late 1960s, when sophisticated biopsy techniques were developed that could identify IgA deposits in kidney tissue.
                
The most common symptom of IgA nephropathy is blood in the urine, but it is often a silent disease that may go undetected for many years. The silent nature of the disease makes it difficult to determine how many people are in the early stages of IgA nephropathy, when specific medical tests are the only way to detect it. This disease is estimated to be the most common cause of primary glomerulonephritisthat is, glomerular disease not caused by a systemic disease like lupus or diabetes mellitus. It appears to affect men more than women. Although IgA nephropathy is found in all age groups, young people rarely display signs of kidney failure because the disease usually takes several years to progress to the stage where it causes detectable complications.
                
No treatment is recommended for early or mild cases of IgA nephropathy when the patient has normal blood pressure and less than 1 gram of protein in a 24-hour urine output. When proteinuria exceeds 1 gram/day, treatment is aimed at protecting kidney function by reducing proteinuria and controlling blood pressure. Blood pressure medicinesangiotensinconverting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) or angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs)that block a hormone called angiotensin are most effective at achieving those two goals simultaneously.
                

                
Hereditary NephritisAlport Syndrome
                
The primary indicator of Alport syndrome is a family history of chronic glomerular disease, although it may also involve hearing or vision impairment. This syndrome affects both men and women, but men are more likely to experience chronic kidney disease and sensory loss. Men with Alport syndrome usually first show evidence of renal insufficiency while in their twenties and reach total kidney failure by age 40. Women rarely have significant renal impairment, and hearing loss may be so slight that it can be detected only through testing with special equipment. Usually men can pass the disease only to their daughters. Women can transmit the disease to either their sons or their daughters. Treatment focuses on controlling blood pressure to maintain kidney function.
                
Infection-related Glomerular Disease
                
Glomerular disease sometimes develops rapidly after an infection in other parts of the body. Acute post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis (PSGN) can occur after an episode of strep throat or, in rare cases, impetigo (a skin infection). The Streptococcus bacteria do not attack the kidney directly, but an infection may stimulate the immune system to overproduce antibodies, which are circulated in the blood and finally deposited in the glomeruli, causing damage. PSGN can bring on sudden symptoms of swelling (edema), reduced urine output (oliguria), and blood in the urine (hematuria). Tests will show large amounts of protein in the urine and elevated levels of creatinine and urea nitrogen in the blood, thus indicating reduced kidney function. High blood pressure frequently accompanies reduced kidney function in this disease.
                
PSGN is most common in children between the ages of 3 and 7, although it can strike at any age, and it most often affects boys. It lasts only a brief time and usually allows the kidneys to recover. In a few cases, however, kidney damage may be permanent, requiring dialysis or transplantation to replace renal function.
                
Bacterial endocarditis, infection of the tissues inside the heart, is also associated with subsequent glomerular disease. Researchers are not sure whether the renal lesions that form after a heart infection are caused entirely by the immune response or whether some other disease mechanism contributes to kidney damage. Treating the heart infection is the most effective way of minimizing kidney damage. Endocarditis sometimes produces chronic kidney disease (CKD).
                
HIV, the virus that leads to AIDS, can also cause glomerular disease. Between 5 and 10 percent of people with HIV experience kidney failure, even before developing full-blown AIDS. HIV-associated nephropathy usually begins with heavy proteinuria and progresses rapidly (within a year of detection) to total kidney failure. Researchers are looking for therapies that can slow down or reverse this rapid deterioration of renal function, but some possible solutions involving immunosuppression are risky because of the patients' already compromised immune system.
                
Sclerotic Diseases
                
Glomerulosclerosis is scarring (sclerosis) of the glomeruli. In several sclerotic conditions, a systemic disease like lupus or diabetes is responsible. Glomerulosclerosis is caused by the activation of glomerular cells to produce scar material. This may be stimulated by molecules called growth factors, which may be made by glomerular cells themselves or may be brought to the glomerulus by the circulating blood that enters the glomerular filter.
                
Diabetic nephropathy is the leading cause of glomerular disease and of total kidney failure in the United States. Kidney disease is one of several problems caused by elevated levels of blood glucose, the central feature of diabetes. In addition to scarring the kidney, elevated glucose levels appear to increase the speed of blood flow into the kidney, putting a strain on the filtering glomeruli and raising blood pressure.
                
Diabetic nephropathy usually takes many years to develop. People with diabetes can slow down damage to their kidneys by controlling their blood glucose through healthy eating with moderate protein intake, physical activity, and medications. People with diabetes should also be careful to keep their blood pressure at a level below 140/90 mm Hg, if possible. Blood pressure medications called ACE inhibitors and ARBs are particularly effective at minimizing kidney damage and are now frequently prescribed to control blood pressure in patients with diabetes and in patients with many forms of kidney disease.
                
Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) describes scarring in scattered regions of the kidney, typically limited to one part of the glomerulus and to a minority of glomeruli in the affected region. FSGS may result from a systemic disorder or it may develop as an idiopathic kidney disease, without a known cause. Proteinuria is the most common symptom of FSGS, but, since proteinuria is associated with several other kidney conditions, the doctor cannot diagnose FSGS on the basis of proteinuria alone. Biopsy may confirm the presence of glomerular scarring if the tissue is taken from the affected section of the kidney. But finding the affected section is a matter of chance, especially early in the disease process, when lesions may be scattered.
                
Confirming a diagnosis of FSGS may require repeat kidney biopsies. Arriving at a diagnosis of idiopathic FSGS requires the identification of focal scarring and the elimination of possible systemic causes such as diabetes or an immune response to infection. Since idiopathic FSGS is, by definition, of unknown cause, it is difficult to treat. No universal remedy has been found, and most patients with FSGS progress to total kidney failure over 5 to 20 years. Some patients with an aggressive form of FSGS reach total kidney failure in 2 to 3 years. Treatments involving steroids or other immunosuppressive drugs appear to help some patients by decreasing proteinuria and improving kidney function. But these treatments are beneficial to only a minority of those in whom they are tried, and some patients experience even poorer kidney function as a result. ACE inhibitors and ARBs may also be used in FSGS to decrease proteinuria. Treatment should focus on controlling blood pressure and blood cholesterol levels, factors that may contribute to kidney scarring.
                
Other Glomerular Diseases
                
Membranous nephropathy, also called membranous glomerulopathy, is the second most common cause of the nephrotic syndrome (proteinuria, edema, high cholesterol) in U.S. adults after diabetic nephropathy. Diagnosis of membranous nephropathy requires a kidney biopsy, which reveals unusual deposits of immunoglobulin G and complement C3, substances created by the body's immune system. Fully 75 percent of cases are idiopathic, which means that the cause of the disease is unknown. The remaining 25 percent of cases are the result of other diseases like systemic lupus erythematosus, hepatitis B or C infection, or some forms of cancer. Drug therapies involving penicillamine, gold, or captopril have also been associated with membranous nephropathy. About 20 to 40 percent of patients with membranous nephropathy progress, usually over decades, to total kidney failure, but most patients experience either complete remission or continued symptoms without progressive kidney failure. Doctors disagree about how aggressively to treat this condition, since about 20 percent of patients recover without treatment. ACE inhibitors and ARBs are generally used to reduce proteinuria. Additional medication to control high blood pressure and edema is frequently required. Some patients benefit from steroids, but this treatment does not work for everyone. Additional immunosuppressive medications are helpful for some patients with progressive disease.
                
Minimal change disease (MCD) is the diagnosis given when a patient has the nephrotic syndrome and the kidney biopsy reveals little or no change to the structure of glomeruli or surrounding tissues when examined by a light microscope. Tiny drops of a fatty substance called a lipid may be present, but no scarring has taken place within the kidney. MCD may occur at any age, but it is most common in childhood. A small percentage of patients with idiopathic nephrotic syndrome do not respond to steroid therapy. For these patients, the doctor may recommend a low-sodium diet and prescribe a diuretic to control edema. The doctor may recommend the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs to reduce proteinuria. ACE inhibitors and ARBs have also been used to reduce proteinuria in patients with steroid-resistant MCD. These patients may respond to larger doses of steroids, more prolonged use of steroids, or steroids in combination with immunosuppressant drugs, such as chlorambucil, cyclophosphamide, or cyclosporine.

Question: What causes Prolactinoma ?
Answer: The cause of pituitary tumors remains largely unknown. Most pituitary tumors are sporadic, meaning they are not genetically passed from parents to their children.

Question: What causes Prolactinoma ?
Answer: In some people, high blood levels of prolactin can be traced to causes other than prolactinoma.
                
Prescription drugs. Prolactin secretion in the pituitary is normally suppressed by the brain chemical dopamine. Drugs that block the effects of dopamine at the pituitary or deplete dopamine stores in the brain may cause the pituitary to secrete prolactin. These drugs include older antipsychotic medications such as trifluoperazine (Stelazine) and haloperidol (Haldol); the newer antipsychotic drugs risperidone (Risperdal) and molindone (Moban); metoclopramide (Reglan), used to treat gastroesophageal reflux and the nausea caused by certain cancer drugs; and less often, verapamil, alpha-methyldopa (Aldochlor, Aldoril), and reserpine (Serpalan, Serpasil), used to control high blood pressure. Some antidepressants may cause hyperprolactinemia, but further research is needed.
                
Other pituitary tumors. Other tumors arising in or near the pituitary may block the flow of dopamine from the brain to the prolactin-secreting cells. Such tumors include those that cause acromegaly, a condition caused by too much growth hormone, and Cushing's syndrome, caused by too much cortisol. Other pituitary tumors that do not result in excess hormone production may also block the flow of dopamine.
                
Hypothyroidism. Increased prolactin levels are often seen in people with hypothyroidism, a condition in which the thyroid does not produce enough thyroid hormone. Doctors routinely test people with hyperprolactinemia for hypothyroidism.
                
Chest involvement. Nipple stimulation also can cause a modest increase in the amount of prolactin in the blood. Similarly, chest wall injury or shingles involving the chest wall may also cause hyperprolactinemia.

Question: What causes Perineal Injury in Males ?
Answer: Common causes of acute perineal injury in males include
                
- perineal surgery  - straddle injuries  - sexual abuse  - impalement
                
Perineal Surgery
                
Acute perineal injury may result from surgical procedures that require an incision in the perineum:
                
- A prostatectomy is the surgical removal of the prostate to treat prostate cancer. The prostate, a walnut-shaped gland in men, surrounds the urethra at the neck of the bladder and supplies fluid that goes into semen. The surgeon chooses the location for the incision based on the patients physical characteristics, such as size and weight, and the surgeons experience and preferences. In one approach, called the radical perineal prostatectomy, the surgeon makes an incision between the scrotum and the anus. In a retropubic prostatectomy, the surgeon makes the incision in the lower abdomen, just above the penis. Both approaches can damage blood vessels and nerves affecting sexual function and bladder control.  - Perineal urethroplasty is surgery to repair stricture, or narrowing, of the portion of the urethra that runs through the perineum. Without this procedure, some men would not be able to pass urine. However, the procedure does require an incision in the perineum, which can damage blood vessels or nerves.  - Colorectal or anal cancer surgery can injure the perineum by cutting through some of the muscle around the anus to remove a tumor. One approach to anal cancer surgery involves making incisions in the abdomen and the perineum.
                
Surgeons try to avoid procedures that damage a persons blood vessels, perineal nerves, and muscles. However, sometimes a perineal incision may achieve the best angle to remove a life-threatening cancer.
                
People should discuss the risks of any planned surgery with their health care provider so they can make an informed decision and understand what to expect after the operation.
                
Straddle Injuries
                
Straddle injuries result from falls onto objects such as metal bars, pipes, or wooden rails, where the persons legs are on either side of the object and the perineum strikes the object forcefully. These injuries include motorcycle and bike riding accidents, saddle horn injuries during horseback riding, falls on playground equipment such as monkey bars, and gymnastic accidents on an apparatus such as the parallel bars or pommel horse.
                
In rare situations, a blunt injury to the perineum may burst a blood vessel inside the erectile tissue of the penis, causing a persistent partial erection that can last for days to years. This condition is called high-flow priapism. If not treated, ED may result.
                
Sexual Abuse
                
Forceful and inappropriate sexual contact can result in perineal injury. When health care providers evaluate injuries in the genital area, they should consider the possibility of sexual abuse, even if the person or family members say the injury is the result of an accident such as a straddle injury. The law requires that health care providers report cases of sexual abuse that come to their attention. The person and family members should understand the health care provider may ask some uncomfortable questions about the circumstances of the injury.
                
Impalement
                
Impalement injuries may involve metal fence posts, rods, or weapons that pierce the perineum. Impalement is rare, although it may occur where moving equipment and pointed tools are in use, such as on farms or construction sites. Impalement can also occur as the result of a fall, such as from a tree or playground equipment, onto something sharp. Impalement injuries are most common in combat situations. If an impalement injury pierces the skin and muscles, the injured person needs immediate medical attention to minimize blood loss and repair the injury.

Question: What causes Perineal Injury in Males ?
Answer: Chronic perineal injury most often results from a job-or sport-related practicesuch as bike, motorcycle, or horseback ridingor a long-term condition such as chronic constipation.
                
Bike Riding
                
Sitting on a narrow, saddle-style bike seatwhich has a protruding nose in the frontplaces far more pressure on the perineum than sitting in a regular chair. In a regular chair, the flesh and bone of the buttocks partially absorb the pressure of sitting, and the pressure occurs farther toward the back than on a bike seat. The straddling position on a narrow seat pinches the perineal blood vessels and nerves, possibly causing blood vessel and nerve damage over time. Research shows wider, noseless seats reduce perineal pressure.1
                
Occasional bike riding for short periods of time may pose no risk. However, men who ride bikes several hours a weeksuch as competitive bicyclists, bicycle couriers, and bicycle patrol officershave a significantly higher risk of developing mild to severe ED.2 The ED may be caused by repetitive pressure on blood vessels, which constricts them and results in plaque buildup in the vessels.
                
Other activities that involve riding saddle-style include motorcycle and horseback riding. Researchers have studied bike riding more extensively than these other activities; however, the few studies published regarding motorcycle and horseback riding suggest motorcycle riding increases the risk of ED and urinary symptoms.3 Horseback riding appears relatively safe in terms of chronic injury,4 although the action of bouncing up and down, repeatedly striking the perineum, has the potential for causing damage.
                
Constipation
                
Constipation is defined as having a bowel movement fewer than three times per week. People with constipation usually have hard, dry stools that are small in size and difficult to pass. Some people with constipation need to strain to pass stools. This straining creates internal pressure that squeezes the perineum and can damage the perineal blood vessels and nerves. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Constipation.

Question: What causes Overview of Kidney Disease in Children ?
Answer: Kidney disease in children can be caused by
                
- birth defects  - hereditary diseases  - infection  - nephrotic syndrome  - systemic diseases  - trauma  - urine blockage or reflux
                
From birth to age 4, birth defects and hereditary diseases are the leading causes of kidney failure. Between ages 5 and 14, kidney failure is most commonly caused by hereditary diseases, nephrotic syndrome, and systemic diseases. Between ages 15 and 19, diseases that affect the glomeruli are the leading cause of kidney failure, and hereditary diseases become less common.1
                
Birth Defects
                
A birth defect is a problem that happens while a baby is developing in the mothers womb. Birth defects that affect the kidneys include renal agenesis, renal dysplasia, and ectopic kidney, to name a few. These defects are abnormalities of size, structure, or position of the kidneys:
                
- renal agenesischildren born with only one kidney  - renal dysplasiachildren born with both kidneys, yet one does not function  - ectopic kidneychildren born with a kidney that is located below, above, or on the opposite side of its usual position
                
In general, children with these conditions lead full, healthy lives. However, some children with renal agenesis or renal dysplasia are at increased risk for developing kidney disease.
                
Hereditary Diseases
                
Hereditary kidney diseases are illnesses passed from parent to child through the genes. One example is polycystic kidney disease (PKD), characterized by many grapelike clusters of fluid-filled cystsabnormal sacsthat make both kidneys larger over time. These cysts take over and destroy working kidney tissue. Another hereditary disease is Alport syndrome, which is caused by a mutation in a gene for a type of protein called collagen that makes up the glomeruli. The condition leads to scarring of the kidneys. Alport syndrome generally develops in early childhood and is more serious in boys than in girls. The condition can lead to hearing and vision problems in addition to kidney disease.
                
Infection
                
Hemolytic uremic syndrome and acute post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis are kidney diseases that can develop in a child after an infection.
                
- Hemolytic uremic syndrome is a rare disease that is often caused by the Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacterium found in contaminated foods, such as meat, dairy products, and juice. Hemolytic uremic syndrome develops when E. coli bacteria lodged in the digestive tract make toxins that enter the bloodstream. The toxins start to destroy red blood cells and damage the lining of the blood vessels, including the glomeruli. Most children who get an E. coli infection have vomiting, stomach cramps, and bloody diarrhea for 2 to 3 days. Children who develop hemolytic uremic syndrome become pale, tired, and irritable. Hemolytic uremic syndrome can lead to kidney failure in some children.  - Post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis can occur after an episode of strep throat or a skin infection. The Streptococcus bacterium does not attack the kidneys directly; instead, the infection may stimulate the immune system to overproduce antibodies. Antibodies are proteins made by the immune system. The immune system protects people from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. When the extra antibodies circulate in the blood and finally deposit in the glomeruli, the kidneys can be damaged. Most cases of post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis develop 1 to 3 weeks after an untreated infection, though it may be as long as 6 weeks. Post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis lasts only a brief time and the kidneys usually recover. In a few cases, kidney damage may be permanent.
                
Nephrotic Syndrome
                
Nephrotic syndrome is a collection of symptoms that indicate kidney damage. Nephrotic syndrome includes all of the following conditions:
                
- albuminuriawhen a persons urine contains an elevated level of albumin, a protein typically found in the blood  - hyperlipidemiahigher-than-normal fat and cholesterol levels in the blood  - edemaswelling, usually in the legs, feet, or ankles and less often in the hands or face  - hypoalbuminemialow levels of albumin in the blood
                
Nephrotic syndrome in children can be caused by the following conditions:
                
- Minimal change disease is a condition characterized by damage to the glomeruli that can be seen only with an electron microscope, which shows tiny details better than any other type of microscope. The cause of minimal change disease is unknown; some health care providers think it may occur after allergic reactions, vaccinations, and viral infections.  - Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis is scarring in scattered regions of the kidney, typically limited to a small number of glomeruli.  - Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis is a group of autoimmune diseases that cause antibodies to build up on a membrane in the kidney. Autoimmune diseases cause the bodys immune system to attack the bodys own cells and organs.
                
Systemic Diseases
                
Systemic diseases, such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE or lupus) and diabetes, involve many organs or the whole body, including the kidneys:
                
- Lupus nephritis is kidney inflammation caused by SLE, which is an autoimmune disease.  - Diabetes leads to elevated levels of blood glucose, also called blood sugar, which scar the kidneys and increase the speed at which blood flows into the kidneys. Faster blood flow strains the glomeruli, decreasing their ability to filter blood, and raises blood pressure. Kidney disease caused by diabetes is called diabetic kidney disease. While diabetes is the number one cause of kidney failure in adults, it is an uncommon cause during childhood.
                
More information about systemic kidney diseases is provided in the NIDDK health topics:
                
- Lupus Nephritis  - Kidney Disease of Diabetes
                
Trauma
                
Traumas such as burns, dehydration, bleeding, injury, or surgery can cause very low blood pressure, which decreases blood flow to the kidneys. Low blood flow can result in acute kidney failure.
                
Urine Blockage or Reflux
                
When a blockage develops between the kidneys and the urethra, urine can back up into the kidneys and cause damage. Refluxurine flowing from the bladder up to the kidneyhappens when the valve between the bladder and the ureter does not close all the way.

Question: What causes Simple Kidney Cysts ?
Answer: The cause of simple kidney cysts is not fully understood. Obstruction of tubulestiny structures within the kidneys that collect urineor deficiency of blood supply to the kidneys may play a role. Diverticulasacs that form on the tubulesmay detach and become simple kidney cysts. The role of genetic factors in the development of simple kidney cysts has not been studied.

Question: What causes What I need to know about Bladder Control for Women ?
Answer: Urine leakage has many possible causes.

Question: What causes What I need to know about Kidney Failure and How Its Treated ?
Answer: Diabetes and high blood pressure are the most common causes of kidney failure. Other factors include heart and blood vessel disease and a family history of kidney failure. African Americans, Hispanics/Latinos, and American Indians are more likely to have kidney failure.

Question: What causes Peyronie's Disease ?
Answer: Medical experts do not know the exact cause of Peyronies disease. Many believe that Peyronies disease may be the result of
                
- acute injury to the penis  - chronic, or repeated, injury to the penis  - autoimmune diseasea disorder in which the bodys immune system attacks the bodys own cells and organs
                
Injury to the Penis
                
Medical experts believe that hitting or bending the penis may injure the tissues inside. A man may injure the penis during sex, athletic activity, or an accident. Injury ruptures blood vessels, which leads to bleeding and swelling inside the layers of the tunica albuginea. Swelling inside the penis will block blood flow through the layers of tissue inside the penis. When the blood cant flow normally, clots can form and trap immune system cells. As the injury heals, the immune system cells may release substances that lead to the formation of too much scar tissue. The scar tissue builds up and forms a plaque inside the penis. The plaque reduces the elasticity of tissues and flexibility of the penis during erection, leading to curvature. The plaque may further harden because of calcificationthe process in which calcium builds up in body tissue.
                
Autoimmune Disease
                
Some medical experts believe that Peyronies disease may be part of an autoimmune disease. Normally, the immune system is the bodys way of protecting itself from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. Men who have autoimmune diseases may develop Peyronies disease when the immune system attacks cells in the penis. This can lead to inflammation in the penis and can cause scarring. Medical experts do not know what causes autoimmune diseases. Some of the autoimmune diseases associated with Peyronies disease affect connective tissues. Connective tissue is specialized tissue that supports, joins, or separates different types of tissues and organs of the body.

Question: What causes Gastritis ?
Answer: Common causes of gastritis include
                
- Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection  - damage to the stomach lining, which leads to reactive gastritis  - an autoimmune response
                
H. pylori infection. H. pylori is a type of bacteriaorganisms that may cause an infection. H. pylori infection
                
- causes most cases of gastritis  - typically causes nonerosive gastritis  - may cause acute or chronic gastritis
                
H. pylori infection is common, particularly in developing countries, and the infection often begins in childhood. Many people who are infected with H. pylori never have any symptoms. Adults are more likely to show symptoms when symptoms do occur.
                
Researchers are not sure how the H. pylori infection spreads, although they think contaminated food, water, or eating utensils may transmit the bacteria. Some infected people have H. pylori in their saliva, which suggests that infection can spread through direct contact with saliva or other body fluids.
                
More information about Peptic Ulcer Disease and H. pylori is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Peptic Ulcer Disease.
                
Damage to the stomach lining, which leads to reactive gastritis. Some people who have damage to the stomach lining can develop reactive gastritis.
                
Reactive gastritis
                
- may be acute or chronic  - may cause erosions  - may cause little or no inflammation
                
Reactive gastritis may also be called reactive gastropathy when it causes little or no inflammation.
                
The causes of reactive gastritis may include
                
- nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), a type of over-the-counter medication. Aspirin and ibuprofen are common types of NSAIDs.  - drinking alcohol.  - using cocaine.  - exposure to radiation or having radiation treatments.  - reflux of bile from the small intestine into the stomach. Bile reflux may occur in people who have had part of their stomach removed.  - a reaction to stress caused by traumatic injuries, critical illness, severe burns, and major surgery. This type of reactive gastritis is called stress gastritis.
                
An autoimmune response. In autoimmune gastritis, the immune system attacks healthy cells in the stomach lining. The immune system normally protects people from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. Autoimmune gastritis is chronic and typically nonerosive.
                
Less common causes of gastritis may include
                
- Crohn's disease, which causes inflammation and irritation of any part of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract.  - sarcoidosis, a disease that causes inflammation that will not go away. The chronic inflammation causes tiny clumps of abnormal tissue to form in various organs in the body. The disease typically starts in the lungs, skin, and lymph nodes.  - allergies to food, such as cow's milk and soy, especially in children.  - infections with viruses, parasites, fungi, and bacteria other than H. pylori, typically in people with weakened immune systems.

Question: What causes Autoimmune Hepatitis ?
Answer: A combination of autoimmunity, environmental triggers, and a genetic predisposition can lead to autoimmune hepatitis.

Question: What causes Dumping Syndrome ?
Answer: Dumping syndrome is caused by problems with the storage of food particles in the stomach and emptying of particles into the duodenum. Early dumping syndrome results from rapid movement of fluid into the intestine following a sudden addition of a large amount of food from the stomach. Late dumping syndrome results from rapid movement of sugar into the intestine, which raises the body's blood glucose level and causes the pancreas to increase its release of the hormone insulin. The increased release of insulin causes a rapid drop in blood glucose levels, a condition known as hypoglycemia, or low blood sugar.

Question: What causes Kidney Dysplasia ?
Answer: Genetic factors can cause kidney dysplasia. Genes pass information from both parents to the child and determine the childs traits. Sometimes, parents may pass a gene that has changed, or mutated, causing kidney dysplasia.
                
Genetic syndromes that affect multiple body systems can also cause kidney dysplasia. A syndrome is a group of symptoms or conditions that may seem unrelated yet are thought to have the same genetic cause. A baby with kidney dysplasia due to a genetic syndrome might also have problems of the digestive tract, nervous system, heart and blood vessels, muscles and skeleton, or other parts of the urinary tract.
                
A baby may also develop kidney dysplasia if his or her mother takes certain prescription medications during pregnancy, such as some used to treat seizures and high blood pressure. A mothers use of illegal drugs, such as cocaine, during pregnancy may also cause kidney dysplasia in her unborn child.

Question: What causes What I need to know about Kidney Stones ?
Answer: Kidney stones are caused by high levels of calcium, oxalate, and phosphorus in the urine. Some foods may cause kidney stones in certain people. You may be more likely to get a kidney stone if you have
                
- a condition that affects levels of substances in your urine that can cause stones to form  - a family history of kidney stones  - repeating, or recurrent, urinary tract infections  - blockage of your urinary tract  - digestive problems
                
You may also be more likely to get a kidney stone if you dont drink enough fluids or if you take certain medicines.

Question: What causes Porphyria ?
Answer: Most porphyrias are inherited disorders. Scientists have identified genes for all eight enzymes in the heme biosynthetic pathway. Most porphyrias result from inheriting an abnormal gene, also called a gene mutation, from one parent. Some porphyrias, such as congenital erythropoietic porphyria, hepatoerythropoietic porphyria, and erythropoietic protoporphyria, occur when a person inherits two abnormal genes, one from each parent. The likeliness of a person passing the abnormal gene or genes to the next generation depends on the type of porphyria.
                
Porphyria cutanea tarda is usually an acquired disorder, meaning factors other than genes cause the enzyme deficiency. This type of porphyria can be triggered by
                
- too much iron  - use of alcohol or estrogen  - smoking  - chronic hepatitis Ca long-lasting liver disease that causes inflammation, or swelling, of the liver  - HIVthe virus that causes AIDS  - abnormal genes associated with hemochromatosisthe most common form of iron overload disease, which causes the body to absorb too much iron
                
For all types of porphyria, symptoms can be triggered by
                
- use of alcohol  - smoking  - use of certain medications or hormones  - exposure to sunlight  - stress  - dieting and fasting

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Type 1 diabetes is caused by a lack of insulin due to the destruction of insulin-producing beta cells in the pancreas. In type 1 diabetesan autoimmune diseasethe bodys immune system attacks and destroys the beta cells. Normally, the immune system protects the body from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. But in autoimmune diseases, the immune system attacks the bodys own cells. In type 1 diabetes, beta cell destruction may take place over several years, but symptoms of the disease usually develop over a short period of time.
                
Type 1 diabetes typically occurs in children and young adults, though it can appear at any age. In the past, type 1 diabetes was called juvenile diabetes or insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
                
Latent autoimmune diabetes in adults (LADA) may be a slowly developing kind of type 1 diabetes. Diagnosis usually occurs after age 30. In LADA, as in type 1 diabetes, the bodys immune system destroys the beta cells. At the time of diagnosis, people with LADA may still produce their own insulin, but eventually most will need insulin shots or an insulin pump to control blood glucose levels.
                
Genetic Susceptibility
                
Heredity plays an important part in determining who is likely to develop type 1 diabetes. Genes are passed down from biological parent to child. Genes carry instructions for making proteins that are needed for the bodys cells to function. Many genes, as well as interactions among genes, are thought to influence susceptibility to and protection from type 1 diabetes. The key genes may vary in different population groups. Variations in genes that affect more than 1 percent of a population group are called gene variants.
                
Certain gene variants that carry instructions for making proteins called human leukocyte antigens (HLAs) on white blood cells are linked to the risk of developing type 1 diabetes. The proteins produced by HLA genes help determine whether the immune system recognizes a cell as part of the body or as foreign material. Some combinations of HLA gene variants predict that a person will be at higher risk for type 1 diabetes, while other combinations are protective or have no effect on risk.
                
While HLA genes are the major risk genes for type 1 diabetes, many additional risk genes or gene regions have been found. Not only can these genes help identify people at risk for type 1 diabetes, but they also provide important clues to help scientists better understand how the disease develops and identify potential targets for therapy and prevention.
                
Genetic testing can show what types of HLA genes a person carries and can reveal other genes linked to diabetes. However, most genetic testing is done in a research setting and is not yet available to individuals. Scientists are studying how the results of genetic testing can be used to improve type 1 diabetes prevention or treatment.
                
Autoimmune Destruction of Beta Cells
                
In type 1 diabetes, white blood cells called T cells attack and destroy beta cells. The process begins well before diabetes symptoms appear and continues after diagnosis. Often, type 1 diabetes is not diagnosed until most beta cells have already been destroyed. At this point, a person needs daily insulin treatment to survive. Finding ways to modify or stop this autoimmune process and preserve beta cell function is a major focus of current scientific research.
                
Recent research suggests insulin itself may be a key trigger of the immune attack on beta cells. The immune systems of people who are susceptible to developing type 1 diabetes respond to insulin as if it were a foreign substance, or antigen. To combat antigens, the body makes proteins called antibodies. Antibodies to insulin and other proteins produced by beta cells are found in people with type 1 diabetes. Researchers test for these antibodies to help identify people at increased risk of developing the disease. Testing the types and levels of antibodies in the blood can help determine whether a person has type 1 diabetes, LADA, or another type of diabetes.
                
Environmental Factors
                
Environmental factors, such as foods, viruses, and toxins, may play a role in the development of type 1 diabetes, but the exact nature of their role has not been determined. Some theories suggest that environmental factors trigger the autoimmune destruction of beta cells in people with a genetic susceptibility to diabetes. Other theories suggest that environmental factors play an ongoing role in diabetes, even after diagnosis.
                
Viruses and infections. A virus cannot cause diabetes on its own, but people are sometimes diagnosed with type 1 diabetes during or after a viral infection, suggesting a link between the two. Also, the onset of type 1 diabetes occurs more frequently during the winter when viral infections are more common. Viruses possibly associated with type 1 diabetes include coxsackievirus B, cytomegalovirus, adenovirus, rubella, and mumps. Scientists have described several ways these viruses may damage or destroy beta cells or possibly trigger an autoimmune response in susceptible people. For example, anti-islet antibodies have been found in patients with congenital rubella syndrome, and cytomegalovirus has been associated with significant beta cell damage and acute pancreatitisinflammation of the pancreas. Scientists are trying to identify a virus that can cause type 1 diabetes so that a vaccine might be developed to prevent the disease.
                
Infant feeding practices. Some studies have suggested that dietary factors may raise or lower the risk of developing type 1 diabetes. For example, breastfed infants and infants receiving vitamin D supplements may have a reduced risk of developing type 1 diabetes, while early exposure to cows milk and cereal proteins may increase risk. More research is needed to clarify how infant nutrition affects the risk for type 1 diabetes.
                
Read more in the Centers for Disease Control and Preventions (CDCs) publication  National Diabetes Statistics Report, 2014 at  www.cdc.gov for information about research studies related to type 1 diabetes.

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Type 2 diabetesthe most common form of diabetesis caused by a combination of factors, including insulin resistance, a condition in which the bodys muscle, fat, and liver cells do not use insulin effectively. Type 2 diabetes develops when the body can no longer produce enough insulin to compensate for the impaired ability to use insulin. Symptoms of type 2 diabetes may develop gradually and can be subtle; some people with type 2 diabetes remain undiagnosed for years.
                
Type 2 diabetes develops most often in middle-aged and older people who are also overweight or obese. The disease, once rare in youth, is becoming more common in overweight and obese children and adolescents. Scientists think genetic susceptibility and environmental factors are the most likely triggers of type 2 diabetes.
                
Genetic Susceptibility
                
Genes play a significant part in susceptibility to type 2 diabetes. Having certain genes or combinations of genes may increase or decrease a persons risk for developing the disease. The role of genes is suggested by the high rate of type 2 diabetes in families and identical twins and wide variations in diabetes prevalence by ethnicity. Type 2 diabetes occurs more frequently in African Americans, Alaska Natives, American Indians, Hispanics/Latinos, and some Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islander Americans than it does in non-Hispanic whites.
                
Recent studies have combined genetic data from large numbers of people, accelerating the pace of gene discovery. Though scientists have now identified many gene variants that increase susceptibility to type 2 diabetes, the majority have yet to be discovered. The known genes appear to affect insulin production rather than insulin resistance. Researchers are working to identify additional gene variants and to learn how they interact with one another and with environmental factors to cause diabetes.
                
Studies have shown that variants of the TCF7L2 gene increase susceptibility to type 2 diabetes. For people who inherit two copies of the variants, the risk of developing type 2 diabetes is about 80 percent higher than for those who do not carry the gene variant.1 However, even in those with the variant, diet and physical activity leading to weight loss help delay diabetes, according to the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP), a major clinical trial involving people at high risk.
                
Genes can also increase the risk of diabetes by increasing a persons tendency to become overweight or obese. One theory, known as the thrifty gene hypothesis, suggests certain genes increase the efficiency of metabolism to extract energy from food and store the energy for later use. This survival trait was advantageous for populations whose food supplies were scarce or unpredictable and could help keep people alive during famine. In modern times, however, when high-calorie foods are plentiful, such a trait can promote obesity and type 2 diabetes.
                
Obesity and Physical Inactivity
                
Physical inactivity and obesity are strongly associated with the development of type 2 diabetes. People who are genetically susceptible to type 2 diabetes are more vulnerable when these risk factors are present.
                
An imbalance between caloric intake and physical activity can lead to obesity, which causes insulin resistance and is common in people with type 2 diabetes. Central obesity, in which a person has excess abdominal fat, is a major risk factor not only for insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes but also for heart and blood vessel disease, also called cardiovascular disease (CVD). This excess belly fat produces hormones and other substances that can cause harmful, chronic effects in the body such as damage to blood vessels.
                
The DPP and other studies show that millions of people can lower their risk for type 2 diabetes by making lifestyle changes and losing weight. The DPP proved that people with prediabetesat high risk of developing type 2 diabetescould sharply lower their risk by losing weight through regular physical activity and a diet low in fat and calories. In 2009, a follow-up study of DPP participantsthe Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study (DPPOS)showed that the benefits of weight loss lasted for at least 10 years after the original study began.2
                
Read more about the DPP, funded under National Institutes of Health (NIH) clinical trial number NCT00004992, and the DPPOS, funded under NIH clinical trial number NCT00038727 in  Diabetes Prevention Program.
                
Insulin Resistance
                
Insulin resistance is a common condition in people who are overweight or obese, have excess abdominal fat, and are not physically active. Muscle, fat, and liver cells stop responding properly to insulin, forcing the pancreas to compensate by producing extra insulin. As long as beta cells are able to produce enough insulin, blood glucose levels stay in the normal range. But when insulin production falters because of beta cell dysfunction, glucose levels rise, leading to prediabetes or diabetes.
                
Abnormal Glucose Production by the Liver
                
In some people with diabetes, an abnormal increase in glucose production by the liver also contributes to high blood glucose levels. Normally, the pancreas releases the hormone glucagon when blood glucose and insulin levels are low. Glucagon stimulates the liver to produce glucose and release it into the bloodstream. But when blood glucose and insulin levels are high after a meal, glucagon levels drop, and the liver stores excess glucose for later, when it is needed. For reasons not completely understood, in many people with diabetes, glucagon levels stay higher than needed. High glucagon levels cause the liver to produce unneeded glucose, which contributes to high blood glucose levels. Metformin, the most commonly used drug to treat type 2 diabetes, reduces glucose production by the liver.
                
The Roles of Insulin and Glucagon in Normal Blood Glucose Regulation
                
A healthy persons body keeps blood glucose levels in a normal range through several complex mechanisms. Insulin and glucagon, two hormones made in the pancreas, help regulate blood glucose levels:
                
- Insulin, made by beta cells, lowers elevated blood glucose levels.  - Glucagon, made by alpha cells, raises low blood glucose levels.
                
- Insulin helps muscle, fat, and liver cells absorb glucose from the bloodstream, lowering blood glucose levels.  - Insulin stimulates the liver and muscle tissue to store excess glucose. The stored form of glucose is called glycogen.  - Insulin also lowers blood glucose levels by reducing glucose production in the liver.
                
- Glucagon signals the liver and muscle tissue to break down glycogen into glucose, which enters the bloodstream and raises blood glucose levels.  - If the body needs more glucose, glucagon stimulates the liver to make glucose from amino acids.
                
Metabolic Syndrome
                
Metabolic syndrome, also called insulin resistance syndrome, refers to a group of conditions common in people with insulin resistance, including
                
- higher than normal blood glucose levels  - increased waist size due to excess abdominal fat  - high blood pressure  - abnormal levels of cholesterol and triglycerides in the blood
                
Cell Signaling and Regulation
                
Cells communicate through a complex network of molecular signaling pathways. For example, on cell surfaces, insulin receptor molecules capture, or bind, insulin molecules circulating in the bloodstream. This interaction between insulin and its receptor prompts the biochemical signals that enable the cells to absorb glucose from the blood and use it for energy.
                
Problems in cell signaling systems can set off a chain reaction that leads to diabetes or other diseases. Many studies have focused on how insulin signals cells to communicate and regulate action. Researchers have identified proteins and pathways that transmit the insulin signal and have mapped interactions between insulin and body tissues, including the way insulin helps the liver control blood glucose levels. Researchers have also found that key signals also come from fat cells, which produce substances that cause inflammation and insulin resistance.
                
This work holds the key to combating insulin resistance and diabetes. As scientists learn more about cell signaling systems involved in glucose regulation, they will have more opportunities to develop effective treatments.
                
Beta Cell Dysfunction
                
Scientists think beta cell dysfunction is a key contributor to type 2 diabetes. Beta cell impairment can cause inadequate or abnormal patterns of insulin release. Also, beta cells may be damaged by high blood glucose itself, a condition called glucose toxicity.
                
Scientists have not determined the causes of beta cell dysfunction in most cases. Single gene defects lead to specific forms of diabetes called maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY). The genes involved regulate insulin production in the beta cells. Although these forms of diabetes are rare, they provide clues as to how beta cell function may be affected by key regulatory factors. Other gene variants are involved in determining the number and function of beta cells. But these variants account for only a small percentage of type 2 diabetes cases. Malnutrition early in life is also being investigated as a cause of beta cell dysfunction. The metabolic environment of the developing fetus may also create a predisposition for diabetes later in life.
                
Risk Factors for Type 2 Diabetes
                
People who develop type 2 diabetes are more likely to have the following characteristics:
                
- age 45 or older  - overweight or obese  - physically inactive  - parent or sibling with diabetes  - family background that is African American, Alaska Native, American Indian, Asian American, Hispanic/Latino, or Pacific Islander American  - history of giving birth to a baby weighing more than 9 pounds  - history of gestational diabetes  - high blood pressure140/90 or aboveor being treated for high blood pressure  - high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good, cholesterol below 35 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL), or a triglyceride level above 250 mg/dL  - polycystic ovary syndrome, also called PCOS  - prediabetesan A1C level of 5.7 to 6.4 percent; a fasting plasma glucose test result of 100125 mg/dL, called impaired fasting glucose; or a 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test result of 140199, called impaired glucose tolerance  - acanthosis nigricans, a condition associated with insulin resistance, characterized by a dark, velvety rash around the neck or armpits  - history of CVD
                
The American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends that testing to detect prediabetes and type 2 diabetes be considered in adults who are overweight or obese and have one or more additional risk factors for diabetes. In adults without these risk factors, testing should begin at age 45.

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Insulin Resistance and Beta Cell Dysfunction
                
Hormones produced by the placenta and other pregnancy-related factors contribute to insulin resistance, which occurs in all women during late pregnancy. Insulin resistance increases the amount of insulin needed to control blood glucose levels. If the pancreas cant produce enough insulin due to beta cell dysfunction, gestational diabetes occurs.
                
As with type 2 diabetes, excess weight is linked to gestational diabetes. Overweight or obese women are at particularly high risk for gestational diabetes because they start pregnancy with a higher need for insulin due to insulin resistance. Excessive weight gain during pregnancy may also increase risk.
                
Family History
                
Having a family history of diabetes is also a risk factor for gestational diabetes, suggesting that genes play a role in its development. Genetics may also explain why the disorder occurs more frequently in African Americans, American Indians, and Hispanics/Latinos. Many gene variants or combinations of variants may increase a womans risk for developing gestational diabetes. Studies have found several gene variants associated with gestational diabetes, but these variants account for only a small fraction of women with gestational diabetes.
                
Future Risk of Type 2 Diabetes
                
Because a womans hormones usually return to normal levels soon after giving birth, gestational diabetes disappears in most women after delivery. However, women who have gestational diabetes are more likely to develop gestational diabetes with future pregnancies and develop type 2 diabetes.3 Women with gestational diabetes should be tested for persistent diabetes 6 to 12 weeks after delivery and at least every 3 years thereafter.
                
Also, exposure to high glucose levels during gestation increases a childs risk for becoming overweight or obese and for developing type 2 diabetes later on. The result may be a cycle of diabetes affecting multiple generations in a family. For both mother and child, maintaining a healthy body weight and being physically active may help prevent type 2 diabetes.

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Other types of diabetes have a variety of possible causes.
                
Genetic Mutations Affecting Beta Cells, Insulin, and Insulin Action
                
Some relatively uncommon forms of diabetes known as monogenic diabetes are caused by mutations, or changes, in a single gene. These mutations are usually inherited, but sometimes the gene mutation occurs spontaneously. Most of these gene mutations cause diabetes by reducing beta cells ability to produce insulin.
                
The most common types of monogenic diabetes are neonatal diabetes mellitus (NDM) and MODY. NDM occurs in the first 6 months of life. MODY is usually found during adolescence or early adulthood but sometimes is not diagnosed until later in life. More information about NDM and MODY is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Monogenic Forms of Diabetes.
                
Other rare genetic mutations can cause diabetes by damaging the quality of insulin the body produces or by causing abnormalities in insulin receptors.
                
Other Genetic Diseases
                
Diabetes occurs in people with Down syndrome, Klinefelter syndrome, and Turner syndrome at higher rates than the general population. Scientists are investigating whether genes that may predispose people to genetic syndromes also predispose them to diabetes.
                
The genetic disorders cystic fibrosis and hemochromatosis are linked to diabetes. Cystic fibrosis produces abnormally thick mucus, which blocks the pancreas. The risk of diabetes increases with age in people with cystic fibrosis. Hemochromatosis causes the body to store too much iron. If the disorder is not treated, iron can build up in and damage the pancreas and other organs.
                
Damage to or Removal of the Pancreas
                
Pancreatitis, cancer, and trauma can all harm the pancreatic beta cells or impair insulin production, thus causing diabetes. If the damaged pancreas is removed, diabetes will occur due to the loss of the beta cells.
                
Endocrine Diseases
                
Endocrine diseases affect organs that produce hormones. Cushings syndrome and acromegaly are examples of hormonal disorders that can cause prediabetes and diabetes by inducing insulin resistance. Cushings syndrome is marked by excessive production of cortisolsometimes called the stress hormone. Acromegaly occurs when the body produces too much growth hormone. Glucagonoma, a rare tumor of the pancreas, can also cause diabetes. The tumor causes the body to produce too much glucagon. Hyperthyroidism, a disorder that occurs when the thyroid gland produces too much thyroid hormone, can also cause elevated blood glucose levels.
                
Autoimmune Disorders
                
Rare disorders characterized by antibodies that disrupt insulin action can lead to diabetes. This kind of diabetes is often associated with other autoimmune disorders such as lupus erythematosus. Another rare autoimmune disorder called stiff-man syndrome is associated with antibodies that attack the beta cells, similar to type 1 diabetes.
                
Medications and Chemical Toxins
                
Some medications, such as nicotinic acid and certain types of diuretics, anti-seizure drugs, psychiatric drugs, and drugs to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), can impair beta cells or disrupt insulin action. Pentamidine, a drug prescribed to treat a type of pneumonia, can increase the risk of pancreatitis, beta cell damage, and diabetes. Also, glucocorticoidssteroid hormones that are chemically similar to naturally produced cortisolmay impair insulin action. Glucocorticoids are used to treat inflammatory illnesses such as rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, lupus, and ulcerative colitis.
                
Many chemical toxins can damage or destroy beta cells in animals, but only a few have been linked to diabetes in humans. For example, dioxina contaminant of the herbicide Agent Orange, used during the Vietnam Warmay be linked to the development of type 2 diabetes. In 2000, based on a report from the Institute of Medicine, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) added diabetes to the list of conditions for which Vietnam veterans are eligible for disability compensation. Also, a chemical in a rat poison no longer in use has been shown to cause diabetes if ingested. Some studies suggest a high intake of nitrogen-containing chemicals such as nitrates and nitrites might increase the risk of diabetes. Arsenic has also been studied for possible links to diabetes.
                
Lipodystrophy
                
Lipodystrophy is a condition in which fat tissue is lost or redistributed in the body. The condition is associated with insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.

Question: What causes Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: Other types of diabetes have a variety of possible causes.
                
Genetic Mutations Affecting Beta Cells, Insulin, and Insulin Action
                
Some relatively uncommon forms of diabetes known as monogenic diabetes are caused by mutations, or changes, in a single gene. These mutations are usually inherited, but sometimes the gene mutation occurs spontaneously. Most of these gene mutations cause diabetes by reducing beta cells ability to produce insulin.
                
The most common types of monogenic diabetes are neonatal diabetes mellitus (NDM) and MODY. NDM occurs in the first 6 months of life. MODY is usually found during adolescence or early adulthood but sometimes is not diagnosed until later in life. More information about NDM and MODY is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Monogenic Forms of Diabetes.
                
Other rare genetic mutations can cause diabetes by damaging the quality of insulin the body produces or by causing abnormalities in insulin receptors.
                
Other Genetic Diseases
                
Diabetes occurs in people with Down syndrome, Klinefelter syndrome, and Turner syndrome at higher rates than the general population. Scientists are investigating whether genes that may predispose people to genetic syndromes also predispose them to diabetes.
                
The genetic disorders cystic fibrosis and hemochromatosis are linked to diabetes. Cystic fibrosis produces abnormally thick mucus, which blocks the pancreas. The risk of diabetes increases with age in people with cystic fibrosis. Hemochromatosis causes the body to store too much iron. If the disorder is not treated, iron can build up in and damage the pancreas and other organs.
                
Damage to or Removal of the Pancreas
                
Pancreatitis, cancer, and trauma can all harm the pancreatic beta cells or impair insulin production, thus causing diabetes. If the damaged pancreas is removed, diabetes will occur due to the loss of the beta cells.
                
Endocrine Diseases
                
Endocrine diseases affect organs that produce hormones. Cushings syndrome and acromegaly are examples of hormonal disorders that can cause prediabetes and diabetes by inducing insulin resistance. Cushings syndrome is marked by excessive production of cortisolsometimes called the stress hormone. Acromegaly occurs when the body produces too much growth hormone. Glucagonoma, a rare tumor of the pancreas, can also cause diabetes. The tumor causes the body to produce too much glucagon. Hyperthyroidism, a disorder that occurs when the thyroid gland produces too much thyroid hormone, can also cause elevated blood glucose levels.
                
Autoimmune Disorders
                
Rare disorders characterized by antibodies that disrupt insulin action can lead to diabetes. This kind of diabetes is often associated with other autoimmune disorders such as lupus erythematosus. Another rare autoimmune disorder called stiff-man syndrome is associated with antibodies that attack the beta cells, similar to type 1 diabetes.
                
Medications and Chemical Toxins
                
Some medications, such as nicotinic acid and certain types of diuretics, anti-seizure drugs, psychiatric drugs, and drugs to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), can impair beta cells or disrupt insulin action. Pentamidine, a drug prescribed to treat a type of pneumonia, can increase the risk of pancreatitis, beta cell damage, and diabetes. Also, glucocorticoidssteroid hormones that are chemically similar to naturally produced cortisolmay impair insulin action. Glucocorticoids are used to treat inflammatory illnesses such as rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, lupus, and ulcerative colitis.
                
Many chemical toxins can damage or destroy beta cells in animals, but only a few have been linked to diabetes in humans. For example, dioxina contaminant of the herbicide Agent Orange, used during the Vietnam Warmay be linked to the development of type 2 diabetes. In 2000, based on a report from the Institute of Medicine, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) added diabetes to the list of conditions for which Vietnam veterans are eligible for disability compensation. Also, a chemical in a rat poison no longer in use has been shown to cause diabetes if ingested. Some studies suggest a high intake of nitrogen-containing chemicals such as nitrates and nitrites might increase the risk of diabetes. Arsenic has also been studied for possible links to diabetes.
                
Lipodystrophy
                
Lipodystrophy is a condition in which fat tissue is lost or redistributed in the body. The condition is associated with insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.

Question: What causes Diarrhea ?
Answer: Acute diarrhea is usually caused by a bacterial, viral, or parasitic infection. Chronic diarrhea is usually related to a functional disorder such as irritable bowel syndrome or an intestinal disease such as Crohns disease.
                
The most common causes of diarrhea include the following:
                
- Bacterial infections. Several types of bacteria consumed through contaminated food or water can cause diarrhea. Common culprits include Campylobacter, Salmonella, Shigella, and Escherichia coli (E. coli).  - Viral infections. Many viruses cause diarrhea, including rotavirus, norovirus, cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex virus, and viral hepatitis. Infection with the rotavirus is the most common cause of acute diarrhea in children. Rotavirus diarrhea usually resolves in 3 to 7 days but can cause problems digesting lactose for up to a month or longer.  - Parasites. Parasites can enter the body through food or water and settle in the digestive system. Parasites that cause diarrhea include Giardia lamblia, Entamoeba histolytica, and Cryptosporidium.  - Functional bowel disorders. Diarrhea can be a symptom of irritable bowel syndrome.  - Intestinal diseases. Inflammatory bowel disease, ulcerative colitis, Crohns disease, and celiac disease often lead to diarrhea.  - Food intolerances and sensitivities. Some people have difficulty digesting certain ingredients, such as lactose, the sugar found in milk and milk products. Some people may have diarrhea if they eat certain types of sugar substitutes in excessive quantities.  - Reaction to medicines. Antibiotics, cancer drugs, and antacids containing magnesium can all cause diarrhea.
                
Some people develop diarrhea after stomach surgery, which may cause food to move through the digestive system more quickly.
                
People who visit certain foreign countries are at risk for travelers diarrhea, which is caused by eating food or drinking water contaminated with bacteria, viruses, or parasites. Travelers diarrhea can be a problem for people traveling to developing countries in Africa, Asia, Latin America, and the Caribbean. Visitors to Canada, most European countries, Japan, Australia, and New Zealand do not face much risk for travelers diarrhea.
                
In many cases, the cause of diarrhea cannot be found. As long as diarrhea goes away on its own within 1 to 2 days, finding the cause is not usually necessary.

Question: What causes Biliary Atresia ?
Answer: Biliary atresia likely has multiple causes, though none are yet proven. Biliary atresia is not an inherited disease, meaning it does not pass from parent to child. Therefore, survivors of biliary atresia are not at risk for passing the disorder to their children.
                
Biliary atresia is most likely caused by an event in the womb or around the time of birth. Possible triggers of the event may include one or more of the following:
                
- a viral or bacterial infection after birth, such as cytomegalovirus, reovirus, or rotavirus  - an immune system problem, such as when the immune system attacks the liver or bile ducts for unknown reasons  - a genetic mutation, which is a permanent change in a genes structure  - a problem during liver and bile duct development in the womb  - exposure to toxic substances

Question: What causes Pyelonephritis: Kidney Infection ?
Answer: Pyelonephritis is caused by a bacterium or virus infecting the kidneys. Though many bacteria and viruses can cause pyelonephritis, the bacterium Escherichia coli is often the cause. Bacteria and viruses can move to the kidneys from the bladder or can be carried through the bloodstream from other parts of the body. A UTI in the bladder that does not move to the kidneys is called cystitis.

Question: What causes Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis ?
Answer: The causes of PSC are not known. Genes, immune system problems, bacteria, and viruses may play roles in the development of the disease.
                
PSC is linked to inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). About three out of four people with PSC have a type of IBD called ulcerative colitis. The link between PSC and IBD is not yet understood.

Question: What causes Ectopic Kidney ?
Answer: During fetal development, a babys kidneys first appear as buds inside the pelvisthe bowl-shaped bone that supports the spine and holds up the digestive, urinary, and reproductive organsnear the bladder. As the kidneys develop, they move gradually toward their usual position in the back near the rib cage. Sometimes, one of the kidneys remains in the pelvis or stops moving before it reaches its usual position. In other cases, the kidney moves higher than the usual position. Rarely does a child have two ectopic kidneys.
                
Most kidneys move toward the rib cage, but one may cross over so that both kidneys are on the same side of the body. When a crossover occurs, the two kidneys often grow together and become fused.
                
Factors that may lead to an ectopic kidney include
                
- poor development of a kidney bud  - a defect in the kidney tissue responsible for prompting the kidney to move to its usual position  - genetic abnormalities  - the mother being sick or being exposed to an agent, such as a drug or chemical, that causes birth defects

Question: What causes Viral Gastroenteritis ?
Answer: Four types of viruses cause most cases of viral gastroenteritis.
                
Rotavirus
                
Rotavirus is the leading cause of gastroenteritis among infants and young children. Rotavirus infections are most common in infants 3 to 15 months old. Symptoms usually appear 1 to 3 days after exposure. Rotavirus typically causes vomiting and watery diarrhea for 3 to 7 days, along with fever and abdominal pain. Rotavirus can also infect adults who are in close contact with infected children, but the symptoms in adults are milder.
                
Caliciviruses
                
Caliciviruses cause infection in people of all ages. Norovirus is the most common calicivirus and the most common cause of viral gastroenteritis in adults. Norovirus is usually responsible for epidemics of viral gastroenteritis. Norovirus outbreaks occur all year but are more frequent from October to April. People infected with norovirus typically experience nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal cramps, fatigue, headache, and muscle aches. The symptoms usually appear 1 to 2 days after exposure to the virus and last for 1 to 3 days.
                
Adenovirus
                
Adenovirus mainly infects children younger than 2 years old. Of the 49 types of adenoviruses, one strain affects the gastrointestinal tract, causing vomiting and diarrhea. Symptoms typically appear 8 to 10 days after exposure and last 5 to 12 days. Adenovirus infections occur year-round.
                
Astrovirus
                
Astrovirus primarily infects infants and young children, but adults may also be infected. This virus causes vomiting and watery diarrhea. Symptoms usually appear 3 to 4 days after exposure and last 2 to 7 days. The symptoms are milder than the symptoms of norovirus or rotavirus infections. Infections occur year-round, but the virus is most active during the winter months.
                
Viral gastroenteritis is often mistakenly called stomach flu, but it is not caused by the influenza virus. Some forms of gastroenteritis are caused by bacteria or parasites rather than viruses. More information about bacterial infections is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Foodborne Illnesses fact sheet from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK).

Question: What causes What I need to know about Gas ?
Answer: Gas in the digestive tract is usually caused by swallowing air and the breakdown of certain foods in the large intestine.
                
*See the Pronunciation Guide for tips on how to say the underlined words.
                
You typically swallow a small amount of air when you eat and drink. You swallow more air when you
                
- eat or drink too fast  - smoke  - chew gum  - suck on hard candy  - drink carbonated or fizzy drinks  - wear loose-fitting dentures
                
Some of the air you swallow leaves the stomach through the mouth when you burp. Some swallowed air is absorbed in the small intestine. Some air moves through the small intestine to the large intestine and is passed through the anus.
                

                
The stomach and small intestine do not fully digest all of the food you eat. Undigested carbohydratessugars, starches, and fiber found in many foodspass through to the large intestine. Bacteria in the large intestine break down undigested carbohydrates and release gas. This gas is passed through the anus.
                
Normally, few bacteria live in the small intestine. Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) is an increase in the number of bacteria or a change in the type of bacteria in the small intestine. These bacteria can produce excess gas and may also cause diarrhea and weight loss. SIBO is usually related to diseases or disorders that damage the digestive system or affect how it works, such as Crohns disease or diabetes.

Question: What causes What I need to know about Gas ?
Answer: Most foods that contain carbohydrates can cause gas. Foods that cause gas for one person may not cause gas for someone else. Some foods that contain carbohydrates and may cause gas are
                
- beans  - vegetables such as broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, brussels sprouts, onions, mushrooms, artichokes, and asparagus  - fruits such as pears, apples, and peaches  - whole grains such as whole wheat and bran  - sodas; fruit drinks, especially apple juice and pear juice; and other drinks that contain high fructose corn syrup, a sweetener made from corn  - milk and milk products such as cheese, ice cream, and yogurt  - packaged foodssuch as bread, cereal, and salad dressingthat contain small amounts of lactose, the sugar found in milk and foods made with milk  - sugar-free candies and gums that contain sugar alcohols such as sorbitol, mannitol, and xylitol

Question: What causes What I need to know about Gas ?
Answer: You can try to find the cause of gas by keeping a diary of what you eat and drink and how often you burp, pass gas, or have other symptoms. The diary may help you identify the foods that cause you to have gas.
                
Talk with your health care provider if
                
- gas symptoms often bother you  - your symptoms change suddenly  - you have new symptoms, especially if you are older than age 40  - you have other symptomssuch as constipation, diarrhea, or weight lossalong with gas
                

                
Your health care provider will ask about your diet and symptoms. Your health care provider may review your diary to see if specific foods are causing gas.
                
If milk or milk products are causing gas, your health care provider may perform blood or breath tests to check for lactose intolerance. Lactose intolerance means you have trouble digesting lactose. Your health care provider may ask you to avoid milk and milk products for a short time to see if your gas symptoms improve.
                
Your health care provider may test for other digestive problems, depending on your symptoms.

Question: What causes Hemorrhoids ?
Answer: Swelling in the anal or rectal veins causes hemorrhoids. Several factors may cause this swelling, including
                
- chronic constipation or diarrhea  - straining during bowel movements  - sitting on the toilet for long periods of time  - a lack of fiber in the diet
                
Another cause of hemorrhoids is the weakening of the connective tissue in the rectum and anus that occurs with age.
                
Pregnancy can cause hemorrhoids by increasing pressure in the abdomen, which may enlarge the veins in the lower rectum and anus. For most women, hemorrhoids caused by pregnancy disappear after childbirth.

Question: What causes Growth Failure in Children with Chronic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: Researchers have found that many factors cause growth failure in children with CKD. In addition to removing wastes and extra fluid from the blood, the kidneys perform important functions for a childs growth. Understanding normal kidney function and growth helps families understand what causes growth failure in children with CKD.
                
Normal kidney function helps maintain the
                
- balance of nutrients and minerals, such as calcium and phosphorus, in the blood. These minerals are essential for normal bone growth. The kidneys use a hormone called calcitriol, a form of vitamin D, to help bones absorb the right amount of calcium from the blood. The kidneys also remove extra phosphorus, helping balance phosphorus and calcium levels in the blood.  - bodys ability to use growth hormone. Growth hormone is necessary during childhood to help bones grow and stay healthy. The pituitary gland naturally produces growth hormone, which acts as a messenger to help the body grow. Growth hormone tells the liver to produce another hormone, called insulin-like growth factor, that travels to muscles, organs, and bones and tells them to grow.  - correct levels of erythropoietin in the body. Erythropoietin is a hormone that helps bone marrow make red blood cells.  - proper balance of sodium, also called salt; potassium; and acid-base levels in the blood. Acid-base balance refers to the amount of acid in the blood.
                
Damaged kidneys can slow a childs growth by
                
- causing mineral and bone disorder, which occurs when      - vitamin D is not turned into calcitriol, which starves the bones of calcium.    - phosphorus levels rise in the blood and draw calcium out of the bones and into the blood, causing the bones to weaken.    - creating an imbalance of sodium, potassium, and acid-base levels in the blood, also called acidosis. When blood is not balanced, the body slows growth to focus energy on restoring the balance.  - decreasing appetite. A child with CKD may not be hungry, or he or she may not have the energy to eat, which may lead to poor nutrition and slower growth.  - decreasing the production of erythropoietin. When erythropoietin levels are low, a child may develop anemiaa condition that develops when the blood does not have enough healthy red blood cells to carry oxygen to cells throughout the body. Anemia can cause growth to slow or stop.  - making an abnormally large amount of urine, called polyuria, which disrupts the bodys fluid balance. A child with polyuria loses minerals as well. The body slows growth to make up for the lost fluid and minerals.  - preventing the body from correctly using growth hormone. When the kidneys are damaged, waste builds up in the blood and the body does not properly process growth hormone.

Question: What causes Mineral and Bone Disorder in Chronic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: Chronic kidney disease causes mineral and bone disorder because the kidneys do not properly balance the mineral levels in the body. The kidneys
                
- stop activating calcitriol. The low levels of calcitriol in the body create an imbalance of calcium in the blood.  - do not remove the phosphorus in the blood properly, so phosphorus levels rise in the blood. The extra phosphorus pulls calcium out of the bones, causing them to weaken.
                
Another factor contributes to the cause of mineral and bone disorder. When the kidneys are damaged, the parathyroid gland releases parathyroid hormone into the blood to pull calcium from the bones and raise blood calcium levels. This response restores the balance of phosphorus and calcium; however, it also starves the bones of much-needed calcium.

Question: What causes Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ?
Answer: Experts do not know the exact cause of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. About 25 to 30 percent of gastrinomas are caused by an inherited genetic disorder called multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1).1 MEN1 causes hormone-releasing tumors in the endocrine glands and the duodenum. Symptoms of MEN1 include increased hormone levels in the blood, kidney stones, diabetes, muscle weakness, weakened bones, and fractures.
                
More information about MEN1 is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1.

Question: What causes Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome in Children ?
Answer: The most common cause of hemolytic uremic syndrome in children is an Escherichia coli (E. coli) infection of the digestive system. The digestive system is made up of the gastrointestinal, or GI, tracta series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anusand other organs that help the body break down and absorb food.
                
Normally, harmless strains, or types, of E. coli are found in the intestines and are an important part of digestion. However, if a child becomes infected with the O157:H7 strain of E. coli, the bacteria will lodge in the digestive tract and produce toxins that can enter the bloodstream. The toxins travel through the bloodstream and can destroy the red blood cells. E.coli O157:H7 can be found in
                
- undercooked meat, most often ground beef  - unpasteurized, or raw, milk  - unwashed, contaminated raw fruits and vegetables  - contaminated juice  - contaminated swimming pools or lakes
                
Less common causes, sometimes called atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome, can include
                
- taking certain medications, such as chemotherapy  - having other viral or bacterial infections  - inheriting a certain type of hemolytic uremicsyndrome that runs in families
                
More information about foodborne illnesses and the digestive system is provided in the NIDDK health topic, foodborne illnesses.

Question: What causes Cushing's Syndrome ?
Answer: Cushing's syndrome occurs when the body's tissues are exposed to high levels of cortisol for too long. Many people develop Cushing's syndrome because they take glucocorticoids-steroid hormones that are chemically similar to naturally produced cortisolsuch as prednisone for asthma, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, and other inflammatory diseases. Glucocorticoids are also used to suppress the immune system after transplantation to keep the body from rejecting the new organ or tissue.
                
Other people develop Cushing's syndrome because their bodies produce too much cortisol. Normally, the production of cortisol follows a precise chain of events. First, the hypothalamus, a part of the brain about the size of a small sugar cube, sends corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) to the pituitary gland. CRH causes the pituitary to secrete adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH), which stimulates the adrenal glands. When the adrenals, which are located just above the kidneys, receive the ACTH, they respond by releasing cortisol into the bloodstream.
                
Cortisol performs vital tasks in the body including
                
- helping maintain blood pressure and cardiovascular function  - reducing the immune system's inflammatory response  - balancing the effects of insulin, which breaks down glucose for energy  - regulating the metabolism of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats
                
One of cortisol's most important jobs is to help the body respond to stress. For this reason, women in their last 3 months of pregnancy and highly trained athletes normally have high levels of the hormone. People suffering from depression, alcoholism, malnutrition, or panic disorders also have increased cortisol levels.
                
When the amount of cortisol in the blood is adequate, the hypothalamus and pituitary release less CRH and ACTH. This process ensures the amount of cortisol released by the adrenal glands is precisely balanced to meet the bodys daily needs. However, if something goes wrong with the adrenals or the regulating switches in the pituitary gland or hypothalamus, cortisol production can go awry.
                
Pituitary Adenomas
                
Pituitary adenomas cause 70 percent of Cushing's syndrome cases,1 excluding those caused by glucocorticoid use. These benign, or noncancerous, tumors of the pituitary gland secrete extra ACTH. Most people with the disorder have a single adenoma. This form of the syndrome, known as Cushing's disease, affects women five times more often than men.
                
Ectopic ACTH Syndrome
                
Some benign or, more often, cancerous tumors that arise outside the pituitary can produce ACTH. This condition is known as ectopic ACTH syndrome. Lung tumors cause more than half of these cases, and men are affected three times more often than women. The most common forms of ACTH-producing tumors are small cell lung cancer, which accounts for about 13 percent of all lung cancer cases,2 and carcinoid tumors-small, slow-growing tumors that arise from hormone-producing cells in various parts of the body. Other less common types of tumors that can produce ACTH are thymomas, pancreatic islet cell tumors, and medullary carcinomas of the thyroid.
                
Adrenal Tumors
                
In rare cases, an abnormality of the adrenal glands, most often an adrenal tumor, causes Cushing's syndrome. Adrenal tumors are four to five times more common in women than men, and the average age of onset is about 40. Most of these cases involve noncancerous tumors of adrenal tissue called adrenal adenomas, which release excess cortisol into the blood.
                
Adrenocortical carcinomas-adrenal cancers-are the least common cause of Cushing's syndrome. With adrenocortical carcinomas, cancer cells secrete excess levels of several adrenocortical hormones, including cortisol and adrenal androgens, a type of male hormone. Adrenocortical carcinomas usually cause very high hormone levels and rapid development of symptoms.
                
Familial Cushing's Syndrome
                
Most cases of Cushing's syndrome are not inherited. Rarely, however, Cushing's syndrome results from an inherited tendency to develop tumors of one or more endocrine glands. Endocrine glands release hormones into the bloodstream. With primary pigmented micronodular adrenal disease, children or young adults develop small cortisol-producing tumors of the adrenal glands. With multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1), hormone-secreting tumors of the parathyroid glands, pancreas, and pituitary develop; Cushing's syndrome in MEN1 may be due to pituitary, ectopic, or adrenal tumors.

Question: What causes Indigestion ?
Answer: Indigestion can be caused by a condition in the digestive tract such as gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), peptic ulcer disease, cancer, or abnormality of the pancreas or bile ducts. If the condition improves or resolves, the symptoms of indigestion usually improve.
                
Sometimes a person has indigestion for which a cause cannot be found. This type of indigestion, called functional dyspepsia, is thought to occur in the area where the stomach meets the small intestine. The indigestion may be related to abnormal motilitythe squeezing or relaxing actionof the stomach muscle as it receives, digests, and moves food into the small intestine.

Question: What causes IgA Nephropathy ?
Answer: Scientists think that IgA nephropathy is an autoimmune kidney disease, meaning that the disease is due to the bodys immune system harming the kidneys.
                
People with IgA nephropathy have an increased blood level of IgA that contains less of a special sugar, galactose, than normal. This galactose-deficient IgA is considered foreign by other antibodies circulating in the blood. As a result, these other antibodies attach to the galactose-deficient IgA and form a clump. This clump is also called an immune complex. Some of the clumps become stuck in the glomerulus of the nephron and cause inflammation and damage.
                
For some people, IgA nephropathy runs in families. Scientists have recently found several genetic markers that may play a role in the development of the disease. IgA nephropathy may also be related to respiratory or intestinal infections and the immune systems response to these infections.

Question: What causes Urinary Tract Infections in Children ?
Answer: Most UTIs are caused by bacteria that live in the bowel. The bacterium Escherichia coli (E. coli) causes the vast majority of UTIs. The urinary tract has several systems to prevent infection. The points where the ureters attach to the bladder act like one-way valves to prevent urine from backing up, or refluxing, toward the kidneys, and urination washes microbes out of the body. Immune defenses also prevent infection. But despite these safeguards, infections still occur. Certain bacteria have a strong ability to attach themselves to the lining of the urinary tract.
                
Children who often delay urination are more likely to develop UTIs. Regular urination helps keep the urinary tract sterile by flushing away bacteria. Holding in urine allows bacteria to grow. Producing too little urine because of inadequate fluid intake can also increase the risk of developing a UTI. Chronic constipationa condition in which a child has fewer than two bowel movements a weekcan add to the risk of developing a UTI. When the bowel is full of hard stool, it presses against the bladder and bladder neck, blocking the flow of urine and allowing bacteria to grow.
                
Some children develop UTIs because they are prone to such infections, just as other children are prone to getting coughs, colds, or ear infections.

Question: What causes Cirrhosis ?
Answer: Cirrhosis has various causes. Many people with cirrhosis have more than one cause of liver damage.
                
The list below shows common causes of cirrhosis in the United States.2 While chronic hepatitis C and alcohol-related liver disease are the most common causes of cirrhosis, the incidence of cirrhosis caused by nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is rising due to increasing rates of obesity.
                
Most Common Causes of Cirrhosis
                
Chronic hepatitis C. Hepatitis C is due to a viral infection that causes inflammation, or swelling, and damage to the liver. The hepatitis C virus spreads through contact with infected blood, such as from a needlestick accident, injection drug use, or receiving a blood transfusion before 1992. Less commonly, hepatitis C can be spread by sexual contact with an infected person or at the time of childbirth from an infected mother to her newborn.
                
Hepatitis C often becomes chronic, with long-term persistence of the viral infection. Chronic hepatitis C causes damage to the liver that, over years or decades, can lead to cirrhosis. Advanced therapies for chronic hepatitis C now exist, and health care providers should treat people with chronic hepatitis C before they develop severe fibrosis or cirrhosis. Unfortunately, many people first realize they have chronic hepatitis C when they develop symptoms of cirrhosis. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, What I need to know about Hepatitis C.
                
Alcohol-related liver disease. Alcoholism is the second most common cause of cirrhosis in the United States. Most people who consume alcohol do not suffer damage to the liver. However, heavy alcohol use over several years makes a person more likely to develop alcohol-related liver disease. The amount of alcohol it takes to damage the liver varies from person to person. Research suggests that drinking two or fewer drinks a day for women and three or fewer drinks a day for men may not injure the liver.3 Drinking more than these amounts leads to fat and inflammation in the liver, which over 10 to 12 years can lead to alcoholic cirrhosis.4
                
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). In NAFLD, fat builds up in the liver; however, the fat buildup is not due to alcohol use. When the fat accompanies inflammation and liver cell damage, the condition is called nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, or NASH, with steato meaning fat, and hepatitis meaning inflammation of the liver. The inflammation and damage can cause fibrosis, which eventually can lead to cirrhosis.
                
Extra fat in the liver has many causes and is more common in people who
                
- are overweight or obese.  - have diabetesa condition characterized by high blood glucose, also called high blood sugar.  - have high blood cholesterol and triglycerides, called hyperlipidemia.  - have high blood pressure.  - have metabolic syndromea group of traits and medical conditions linked to being overweight and obese that makes people more likely to develop both cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes. Metabolic syndrome is defined as the presence of any three of the following: large waist size, high triglycerides in the blood, abnormal levels of cholesterol in the blood, high blood pressure, and higher than normal blood glucose levels. NASH may represent the liver component of the metabolic syndrome.
                
NASH now ranks as the third most common cause of cirrhosis in the United States. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis.
                
Chronic hepatitis B. Hepatitis B, like hepatitis C, is due to a viral infection that causes inflammation and damage to the liver. Chronic infection can lead to damage and inflammation, fibrosis, and cirrhosis. The hepatitis B virus spreads through contact with infected blood, such as by needlestick accident, injection drug use, or receiving a blood transfusion before the mid-1980s. Hepatitis B also spreads through sexual contact with an infected person and from an infected mother to child during childbirth.
                
In the United States, hepatitis B is somewhat uncommon, affecting less than 1 percent of the population, or fewer than one in 100 people.5 In many areas of the world, however, hepatitis B is common. In some parts of Africa and in most of Asia and the Pacific Islands, about 5 to 7 percent of the population has chronic hepatitis B. In some parts of Africa, more than 8 percent of the population has chronic hepatitis B.6 For these reasons, hepatitis B is likely the major cause of cirrhosis worldwide. However, in the United States, hepatitis B ranks well behind hepatitis C, alcohol-related liver disease, and NASH.
                
Therapies for chronic hepatitis B now exist and health care providers should treat people with chronic hepatitis B before they develop severe fibrosis or cirrhosis. Unfortunately, many people first realize they have chronic hepatitis B when they develop symptoms of cirrhosis.
                
Hepatitis B is also a preventable disease. Since the 1980s, a hepatitis B vaccine has been available and should be given to newborns and children in the United States. Adults at higher risk of getting hepatitis B should also get the vaccine. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics, What I need to know about Hepatitis B and Hepatitis B: What Asian and Pacific Islander Americans Need to Know.
                
Less Common Causes of Cirrhosis
                
Less common causes of cirrhosis include the following:
                
Autoimmune hepatitis. In this form of hepatitis, the bodys immune system attacks liver cells and causes inflammation, damage, and eventually cirrhosis. Normally, the immune system protects people from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. In autoimmune diseases, the bodys immune system attacks the bodys own cells and organs. Researchers believe genetics, or inherited genes, may make some people more likely to develop autoimmune diseases. At least 70 percent of those with autoimmune hepatitis are female.7 More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Autoimmune Hepatitis.
                
Diseases that damage, destroy, or block the bile ducts. Several diseases can damage, destroy, or block the ducts that carry bile from the liver to the small intestine, causing bile to back up in the liver and leading to cirrhosis. In adults, the most common of these diseases is primary biliary cirrhosis, a chronic disease that causes the small bile ducts in the liver to become inflamed and damaged and ultimately disappear. Primary sclerosing cholangitis is a disease that causes irritation, scarring, and narrowing of the larger bile ducts of the liver.
                
In infants and children, causes of damage to or disappearance of bile ducts that can lead to cirrhosis include
                
- Alagille syndrome, a collection of symptoms that indicates a genetic digestive disorder and leads to a loss of bile ducts in infancy.  - biliary atresia, a life-threatening condition that affects newborns in which bile ducts are missing. The cause is unknown. Biliary atresia is the most common reason for liver transplantation in children.8  - cystic fibrosis, an inherited disease of the lungs, intestines, pancreas, and bile ducts in which the body does not produce enough fluid and mucus becomes thick and blocks off small bile ducts. This blockage of the bile ducts can lead to cirrhosis.
                
Long-term blockage of the bile ducts by gallstones can cause cirrhosis. Cirrhosis may also develop if the bile ducts are mistakenly tied off or injured during surgery on the gallbladder or liver.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics:
                
- Primary Biliary Cirrhosis  - Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis  - Alagille Syndrome  - Biliary Atresia  - Gallstones
                
Inherited diseases that affect the liver. Inherited diseases that interfere with how the liver produces, processes, and stores enzymes, proteins, metals, and other substances can cause cirrhosis. These diseases include alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, hemochromatosis, Wilson disease, galactosemia, and glycogen storage diseases. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics:
                
- Hemochromatosis  - Wilson Disease
                
Rare viral infections of the liver. Hepatitis D, or hepatitis delta, and hepatitis E are two rare viral infections of the liver. Hepatitis D infection occurs only in people who have hepatitis B. People infected with chronic hepatitis B and chronic hepatitis D are more likely to develop cirrhosis than people infected with chronic hepatitis B alone.9
                
Hepatitis E is a virus found in domestic and wild animals, particularly pigs, and can cause hepatitis in humans. People with weakened immune systems, including people who are liver or kidney transplant recipients or who have acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), can develop chronic hepatitis E. Chronic hepatitis E can cause scarring of the liver and cirrhosis. Current treatments for chronic hepatitis D and E are experimental and only partially effective.
                
Other causes. Other causes of cirrhosis may include
                
- reactions to medications taken over a period of time.  - prolonged exposure to toxic chemicals.  - parasitic infections.  - chronic heart failure with liver congestion, a condition in which blood flow out of the liver is slowed. Liver congestion can also occur after surgery to correct a congenital heart problema heart problem that is present at birth.
                
Trauma to the liver or other acute, or short term, causes of damage do not cause cirrhosis. Usually, years of chronic injury are required to cause cirrhosis.

Question: What causes Kidney Stones in Children ?
Answer: Kidney stones can form when substances in the urinesuch as calcium, magnesium, oxalate, and phosphorousbecome highly concentrated due to one or more causes:
                
- Defects in the urinary tract may block the flow of urine and create pools of urine. In stagnant urine, stone-forming substances tend to settle together into stones. Up to one-third of children who have stones have an anatomic abnormality in their urinary tract.  - Kidney stones may have a genetic cause. In other words, the tendency to form stones can run in families due to inherited factors.  - An unhealthy lifestyle may make children more likely to have kidney stones. For example, drinking too little water or drinking the wrong types of fluids, such as soft drinks or drinks with caffeine, may cause substances in the urine to become too concentrated. Similarly, too much sodium, or salt, in the diet may contribute to more chemicals in the urine, causing an increase in stone formation. Some doctors believe increases in obesity rates, less active lifestyles, and diets higher in salt may be causing more children to have kidney stones.  - Sometimes, a urinary tract infection can cause kidney stones to form. Some types of bacteria in the urinary tract break down ureaa waste product removed from the blood by the kidneysinto substances that form stones.  - Some children have metabolic disorders that lead to kidney stones. Metabolism is the way the body uses digested food for energy, including the process of breaking down food, using foods nutrients in the body, and removing the wastes that remain. The most common metabolic disorder that causes kidney stones in children is hypercalciuria, which causes extra calcium to collect in the urine. Other more rare metabolic conditions involve problems breaking down oxalate, a substance made in the body and found in some foods. These conditions include hyperoxaluria, too much oxalate in the urine, and oxalosis, characterized by deposits of oxalate and calcium in the bodys tissues. Another rare metabolic condition called cystinuria can cause kidney stones. Cystinuria is an excess of the amino acid cystine in the urine. Amino acids are the building blocks of proteins.

Question: What causes Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis ?
Answer: Although NASH has become more common, its underlying cause is still not clear. It most often occurs in persons who are middle-aged and overweight or obese. Many patients with NASH have elevated blood lipids, such as cholesterol and triglycerides, and many have diabetes or prediabetes, but not every obese person or every patient with diabetes has NASH. Furthermore, some patients with NASH are not obese, do not have diabetes, and have normal blood cholesterol and lipids. NASH can occur without any apparent risk factor and can even occur in children. Thus, NASH is not simply obesity that affects the liver.
                
While the underlying reason for the liver injury that causes NASH is not known, several factors are possible candidates:
                
- insulin resistance  - release of toxic inflammatory proteins by fat cells (cytokines)  - oxidative stress (deterioration of cells) inside liver cells

Question: What causes Medullary Sponge Kidney ?
Answer: Scientists do not fully understand the cause of medullary sponge kidney or why cysts form in the tubules during fetal development. Even though medullary sponge kidney is present at birth, most cases do not appear to be inherited.

Question: What causes Ulcerative Colitis ?
Answer: The exact cause of ulcerative colitis is unknown. Researchers believe the following factors may play a role in causing ulcerative colitis:
                
- overactive intestinal immune system  - genes  - environment
                
Overactive intestinal immune system. Scientists believe one cause of ulcerative colitis may be an abnormal immune reaction in the intestine. Normally, the immune system protects the body from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. Researchers believe bacteria or viruses can mistakenly trigger the immune system to attack the inner lining of the large intestine. This immune system response causes the inflammation, leading to symptoms.
                
Genes. Ulcerative colitis sometimes runs in families. Research studies have shown that certain abnormal genes may appear in people with ulcerative colitis. However, researchers have not been able to show a clear link between the abnormal genes and ulcerative colitis.
                
Environment. Some studies suggest that certain things in the environment may increase the chance of a person getting ulcerative colitis, although the overall chance is low. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs,1 antibiotics,1 and oral contraceptives2 may slightly increase the chance of developing ulcerative colitis. A high-fat diet may also slightly increase the chance of getting ulcerative colitis.3
                
Some people believe eating certain foods, stress, or emotional distress can cause ulcerative colitis. Emotional distress does not seem to cause ulcerative colitis. A few studies suggest that stress may increase a person's chance of having a flare-up of ulcerative colitis. Also, some people may find that certain foods can trigger or worsen symptoms.

Question: What causes Short Bowel Syndrome ?
Answer: The main cause of short bowel syndrome is surgery to remove a portion of the small intestine. This surgery can treat intestinal diseases, injuries, or birth defects.
                
Some children are born with an abnormally short small intestine or with part of their bowel missing, which can cause short bowel syndrome. In infants, short bowel syndrome most commonly occurs following surgery to treat necrotizing enterocolitis, a condition in which part of the tissue in the intestines is destroyed.1
                
Short bowel syndrome may also occur following surgery to treat conditions such as
                
- cancer and damage to the intestines caused by cancer treatment  - Crohn's disease, a disorder that causes inflammation, or swelling, and irritation of any part of the digestive tract  - gastroschisis, which occurs when the intestines stick out of the body through one side of the umbilical cord  - internal hernia, which occurs when the small intestine is displaced into pockets in the abdominal lining  - intestinal atresia, which occurs when a part of the intestines doesn't form completely  - intestinal injury from loss of blood flow due to a blocked blood vessel  - intestinal injury from trauma  - intussusception, in which one section of either the large or small intestine folds into itself, much like a collapsible telescope  - meconium ileus, which occurs when the meconium, a newborn's first stool, is thicker and stickier than normal and blocks the ileum  - midgut volvulus, which occurs when blood supply to the middle of the small intestine is completely cut off  - omphalocele, which occurs when the intestines, liver, or other organs stick out through the navel, or belly button
                
Even if a person does not have surgery, disease or injury can damage the small intestine.

Question: What causes Urinary Incontinence in Children ?
Answer: The exact cause of most cases of nighttime UI is not known. Though a few cases are caused by structural problems in the urinary tract, most cases probably result from a mix of factors including slower physical development, an overproduction of urine at night, and the inability to recognize bladder filling when asleep. Nighttime UI has also been associated with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), OSA, and anxiety. Children also may inherit genes from one or both parents that make them more likely to have nighttime UI.
                
Slower Physical Development
                
Between the ages of 5 and 10, bedwetting may be the result of a small bladder capacity, long sleeping periods, and underdevelopment of the bodys alarms that signal a full or emptying bladder. This form of UI fades away as the bladder grows and the natural alarms become operational.
                
Overproduction of Urine at Night
                
The body produces antidiuretic hormone (ADH), a natural chemical that slows down the production of urine. More ADH is produced at night so the need to urinate lessens. If the body does not produce enough ADH at night, the production of urine may not slow down, leading to bladder overfilling. If a child does not sense the bladder filling and awaken to urinate, wetting will occur.
                
Structural Problems
                
A small number of UI cases are caused by physical problems in the urinary tract. Rarely, a blocked bladder or urethra may cause the bladder to overfill and leak. Nerve damage associated with the birth defect spina bifida can cause UI. In these cases, UI can appear as a constant dribbling of urine.
                
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder
                
Children with ADHD are three times more likely to have nighttime UI than children without ADHD.2 The connection between ADHD and bedwetting has not been explained, but some experts theorize that both conditions are related to delays in central nervous system development.
                
Obstructive Sleep Apnea
                
Nighttime UI may be one sign of OSA. Other symptoms of OSA include snoring, mouth breathing, frequent ear and sinus infections, sore throat, choking, and daytime drowsiness. Experts believe that when the airway in people with OSA closes, a chemical may be released in the body that increases water production and inhibits the systems that regulate fluid volume. Successful treatment of OSA often resolves the associated nighttime UI.
                
Anxiety
                
Anxiety-causing events that occur between 2 and 4 years of agebefore total bladder control is achievedmight lead to primary enuresis. Anxiety experienced after age 4 might lead to secondary enuresis in children who have been dry for at least 6 months. Events that cause anxiety in children include physical or sexual abuse; unfamiliar social situations, such as moving or starting at a new school; and major family events such as the birth of a sibling, a death, or divorce.
                
UI itself is an anxiety-causing event. Strong bladder contractions resulting in daytime leakage can cause embarrassment and anxiety that lead to nighttime wetting.
                
Genetics
                
Certain genes have been found to contribute to UI. Children have a 30 percent chance of having nighttime UI if one parent was affected as a child. If both parents were affected, there is a 70 percent chance of bedwetting.1

Question: What causes Urinary Incontinence in Children ?
Answer: Daytime UI can be caused by a UTI or structural problems in the urinary tract. Daytime UI that is not associated with UTI or structural problems is less common and tends to disappear much earlier than nighttime UI. Overactive bladder and infrequent or incomplete voiding, or urination, are common causes of daytime UI.
                
Overactive Bladder
                
Overactive bladder is a condition in which a child experiences at least two of the following conditions:
                
- urinary urgencyinability to delay urination  - urge urinary incontinenceurinary leakage when the bladder contracts unexpectedly  - urinary frequencyurination eight or more times a day or more than twice at night
                
Infrequent or Incomplete Voiding
                
Infrequent voiding is when children voluntarily hold urine for prolonged periods of time. For example, children may not want to use the toilets at school or may not want to interrupt enjoyable activities, so they ignore the bodys signal of a full bladder. In these cases, the bladder can overfill and leak urine. In addition, these children often develop UTIs, leading to an irritated or overactive bladder.
                
Factors that may combine with infrequent voiding to produce daytime UI include
                
- small bladder capacity  - structural problems  - anxiety-causing events  - pressure from constipation  - drinks or foods that contain caffeine
                
Sometimes, overly demanding toilet training may make children unable to relax the sphincters enough to completely empty the bladder. Incomplete voiding may also lead to UTIs.

Question: What causes Chronic Diarrhea in Children ?
Answer: Many diseases and disorders can cause chronic diarrhea in children. Common causes include
                
- infections  - functional gastrointestinal (GI) disorders  - food allergies and intolerances  - inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)
                
Infections, food allergies and intolerances, and IBD may cause chronic diarrhea along with malabsorption, meaning the small intestine does not absorb nutrients from food. If children do not absorb enough nutrients from the food they eat, they may become malnourished. Functional GI disorders do not cause malabsorption.
                
Infections
                
Infections from viruses, bacteria, or parasites sometimes lead to chronic diarrhea. After an infection, some children have problems digesting carbohydrates, such as lactose, or proteins, such as milk or soy proteins. These problems can cause prolonged diarrheaoften for up to 6 weeksafter an infection. Also, some bacteria and parasite infections that cause diarrhea do not go away quickly without treatment.
                
More information about infections that cause diarrhea is provided in the NIDDK health topics:
                
- Viral Gastroenteritis  - Foodborne Illnesses
                
Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth may also cause chronic diarrhea. Normally, few bacteria live in the small intestine, and many bacteria live in the large intestine. Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth is an increase in the number of bacteria or a change in the type of bacteria in the small intestine. These bacteria can cause diarrhea, gas, cramping, and weight loss. Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth is often related to diseases or disorders that damage the digestive system or affect how it works, such as Crohns disease or diabetes. Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth is also more common in people who have had abdominal surgery or who have slow-moving intestines.
                
Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders
                
In functional GI disorders, symptoms are caused by changes in how the GI tract works. The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anusthe opening through which stool leaves the body. The GI tract digests, or breaks down, food and processes solid waste.
                
Children with a functional GI disorder have frequent symptoms, yet the GI tract does not become damaged. Functional GI disorders are not diseases; they are groups of symptoms that occur together.
                
Two functional GI disorders that cause chronic diarrhea in children are toddlers diarrhea and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).
                
Toddlers diarrhea. Toddlers diarrheaalso called functional diarrhea or chronic nonspecific diarrhea of childhoodis a common cause of chronic diarrhea in toddlers and preschool-age children. Children with this disorder pass three or more loose stools a day and do not have any other symptoms. They typically are growing well and gaining weight, and are healthy.
                
Toddlers diarrhea develops between the ages of 6 months and 3 years, and it usually goes away on its own by the time children begin grade school. Researchers think a diet with too much sugarsuch as the sugar found in fruit juicerelative to the amount of fat and fiber may cause toddlers diarrhea.
                
IBS. The most common symptoms of IBS are abdominal pain or discomfort, often reported as cramping, along with changes in bowel habits, such as diarrhea. The pain or discomfort of IBS typically gets better with the passage of stool or gas. IBS does not cause symptoms such as weight loss, vomiting, or blood in the stool.
                
Possible causes include problems with nerves in the intestines, problems with nerve signals between the brain and the intestines, changes in how food moves through the intestines, and hypersensitivity to pain. Psychological problems, such as anxiety and depression, or food sensitivity may also play a role.
                
IBS is a common cause of chronic diarrhea in grade school-age children and adolescents. Health care providers rarely diagnose IBS in younger children because younger children are not able to report symptoms of pain or discomfort. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics:
                
- Irritable Bowel Syndrome  - Irritable Bowel Syndrome in Children
                
Food Allergies and Intolerances
                
Food allergies, celiac disease, lactose intolerance, and dietary fructose intolerance are common causes of chronic diarrhea.
                
Food allergies. A food allergy is a reaction by the immune system, the bodys natural defense system, to one or more proteins in certain foods. The immune system normally protects the body from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances that can cause illness. In food allergies, however, the immune system responds abnormally to certain foods.
                
Cows milk and soy allergies are the most common food allergies that affect the GI tract in children. Food allergies usually appear in the first year of life. Many children outgrow cows milk and soy allergies by age 3. Allergies to other foods, such as cereal grains, eggs, or seafood, may also affect the GI tract.
                
Symptoms of food allergies may include diarrhea, vomiting, and weight loss or poor weight gain. Some children have mild symptoms, while others have severe or life-threatening symptoms. For example, some children have severe vomiting and diarrhea that lead to dehydration, which means the body lacks enough fluid and electrolytesminerals in salts, including sodium, potassium, and chlorideto function properly.
                
Celiac disease. Celiac disease is an autoimmune disease in which people cannot tolerate gluten. A chronic reaction to gluten damages the lining of their small intestine and prevents absorption of nutrients. Gluten is a protein found in wheat, rye, and barley and in vitamin and nutrient supplements, lip balms, communion wafers, and certain medications.
                
Children of any age can experience digestive symptoms of celiac disease or have symptoms in other parts of the body. Digestive symptoms can include
                
- chronic diarrhea  - abdominal bloating  - stomach pain  - gas  - vomiting  - constipation  - pale, foul-smelling, or fatty stool
                
Malabsorption of nutrients during the years when nutrition is critical to a childs normal growth and development can result in other health problems. These problems may include
                
- failure to thrive in infants  - slowed growth and short stature  - weight loss  - irritability or mood changes  - delayed puberty  - dental enamel defects of the permanent teeth  - anemia, a condition in which red blood cells are fewer or smaller than normal, which prevents the bodys cells from getting enough oxygen  - low levels of important nutrients such as iron and calcium
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics:
                
- Celiac Disease  - What I need to know about Celiac Disease
                
Lactose intolerance. Lactose intolerance is a condition in which people have digestive symptomssuch as bloating, gas, and diarrheaafter consuming milk or milk products. Lactose is a sugar found in milk or milk products. Lactase, an enzyme produced by the small intestine, breaks down lactose into two simpler forms of sugar: glucose and galactose. The bloodstream then absorbs these simpler sugars.
                
Some children have a lactase deficiency, meaning the small intestine produces low levels of lactase and cannot digest much lactose. Lactase deficiency may cause lactose malabsorption. In children with lactose malabsorption, undigested lactose passes to the colon, where bacteria break down the lactose and create fluid and gas.
                
Not all children with lactase deficiency and lactose malabsorption have digestive symptoms. Experts use the term lactose intolerance when lactase deficiency and lactose malabsorption cause digestive symptoms.
                
The most common type of lactase deficiency develops over time, beginning after about age 2, when the body begins to produce less lactase. Children who have lactase deficiency may not experience symptoms of lactose intolerance until late adolescence or adulthood.
                
Infants rarely have lactose intolerance at birth. People sometimes mistake cows milk allergy, which can cause diarrhea in infants, for lactose intolerance. Congenital lactase deficiencyan extremely rare inherited genetic disorder in which the small intestine produces little or no lactase enzyme at birthcan cause lactose intolerance in infants. Premature infants may experience lactose intolerance for a short time after birth. Children of any age may develop temporary lactose intolerance after a viral diarrheal episode or other infection.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics:
                
- Lactose Intolerance  - What I need to know about Lactose Intolerance
                
Dietary fructose intolerance. Dietary fructose intolerance is a condition in which people have digestive symptomssuch as bloating, gas, and diarrheaafter consuming foods that contain fructose. Fructose is a sugar found in fruits, fruit juices, and honey. Fructose is also added to many foods and soft drinks as a sweetener called high fructose corn syrup.
                
Fructose malabsorption causes dietary fructose intolerance. The small intestine absorbs fructose, and, when a person consumes more fructose than the small intestine can absorb, fructose malabsorption results. Unabsorbed fructose passes to the colon, where bacteria break down the fructose and create fluid and gas.
                
The amount of fructose that a childs small intestine can absorb varies. The capacity of the small intestine to absorb fructose increases with age. Some children may be able to tolerate more fructose as they get older.
                
Another type of fructose intolerance, hereditary fructose intolerance, is not related to fructose malabsorption. Hereditary fructose intolerance is an extremely rare inherited genetic disorder. Children with this disorder lack an enzyme needed to break down fructose. Symptoms of hereditary fructose intolerance may include abdominal pain, vomiting, and diarrhea. This disorder can also damage the liver and kidneys.
                
Inflammatory Bowel Disease
                
Inflammatory bowel disease causes irritation and inflammation in the intestines. The two main types of IBD are ulcerative colitis and Crohns disease. These disorders can affect children at any age; however, they commonly begin in the grade school years or in adolescence. The causes of IBD are unknown. Researchers believe they result from an abnormal immune system reaction.
                
Ulcerative colitis. Ulcerative colitis is a disease that causes inflammation, or swelling, and ulcers in the inner lining of the large intestine. The large intestine includes the colon and the rectumthe lower end of the large intestine leading to the anus. Normally, the large intestine absorbs water from stool and changes it from a liquid to a solid. In ulcerative colitis, the inflammation causes loss of the lining of the large intestine, leading to bleeding, production of pus, diarrhea, and abdominal discomfort.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Ulcerative Colitis.
                
Crohns disease. Crohns disease is a disease that causes inflammation and irritation of any part of the GI tract. The end part of the small intestine, called the ileum, is most commonly affected. In Crohns disease, inflammation can extend through the entire wall of the GI tract, leading to possible complications. Swelling can cause pain and can make the intestine empty frequently, resulting in diarrhea.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics:
                
- Crohns Disease  - What I need to know about Crohns Disease

Question: What causes Chronic Diarrhea in Children ?
Answer: To determine the cause of chronic diarrhea in children, the health care provider will take a complete medical and family history and conduct a physical exam, and may perform tests.
                
Medical and family history. Taking a medical and family history is one of the first things a health care provider may do to help determine the cause of chronic diarrhea. He or she will ask for information about symptoms, such as
                
- how long the child has had diarrhea  - the amount of stool passed  - the frequency of diarrhea  - the appearance of the stool  - the presence of other symptoms that accompany diarrhea
                
The health care provider will ask about the childs diet and may recommend keeping a diary of the childs diet and bowel habits. If the health care provider suspects a food allergy or intolerance, he or she may recommend changing the childs diet to see if symptoms improve.
                
The health care provider may also ask about family medical history. Some of the conditions that cause chronic diarrhea, such as celiac disease and lactose intolerance, run in families.
                
Physical exam. After taking a medical history, a health care provider will perform a physical exam, which may help determine the cause of chronic diarrhea. During a physical exam, a health care provider usually
                
- examines a childs body  - uses a stethoscope to listen to bodily sounds  - taps on specific areas of the childs body
                
Tests. The health care provider may perform one or more of the following tests:
                
- Stool test. A stool test is the analysis of a sample of stool. The health care provider will give the parent or caretaker a container for catching and storing the stool. The parent or caretaker returns the sample to the health care provider or a commercial facility that will send the sample to a lab for analysis. Stool tests can show the presence of blood, bacteria, or parasites or signs of diseases and disorders. The health care provider may also do a rectal exam, sometimes during the physical exam. For a rectal exam, the health care provider inserts a gloved, lubricated finger into the rectum to check for blood in the stool.    - Blood test. A blood test involves drawing blood at a health care providers office or a commercial facility and sending the sample to a lab for analysis. The blood test can show signs of certain diseases and disorders that can cause chronic diarrhea in children, including      - high levels of white blood cells, which may be a sign of inflammation or infection somewhere in the body    - anemia, which may be a sign of bleeding in the GI tract or of malabsorption    - the presence of certain antibodiesproteins that react against the bodys own cells or tissueswhich may be a sign of celiac disease      - Hydrogen breath test. This test measures the amount of hydrogen in a childs breath. Normally, only a small amount of hydrogen is detectable in the breath. However, bacteria break down sugarssuch as lactose and fructosethat are not digested by the small intestine and produce high levels of hydrogen. In small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, bacteria break down sugars in the small intestine and produce hydrogen.  For this test, the child breathes into a balloonlike container that measures hydrogen. Then, the child drinks a lactose-loaded beverage, and the childs breath is analyzed at regular intervals to measure the amount of hydrogen. In most cases, a health care provider performs this test at a hospital, on an outpatient basis. A health care provider may use a hydrogen breath test to check for signs of lactose intolerance, fructose intolerance, or small intestinal bacterial overgrowth.    - Upper GI endoscopy. This procedure involves using an endoscopea small, flexible tube with a lightto see the upper GI tract, which includes the esophagus, stomach, and duodenum, the first part of the small intestine. A gastroenterologista doctor who specializes in digestive diseasesperforms the test at a hospital or an outpatient center. The endoscope is carefully fed down the esophagus and into the stomach and duodenum. A small camera mounted on the endoscope transmits a video image to a monitor, allowing close examination of the intestinal lining. A child may receive a liquid anesthetic that is gargled or sprayed on the back of the throat. A health care provider will place an intravenous (IV) needle in a vein in the arm if general anesthesia is given.  The health care provider may use instruments passed through the endoscope to perform a biopsy or collect fluid. A biopsy is a procedure that involves taking a piece of tissue for examination with a microscope. A pathologista doctor who specializes in diagnosing diseasesexamines the tissues in a lab. This test can show problems in the upper GI tract that may cause chronic diarrhea. For example, a biopsy of the small intestine can show signs of celiac disease. A health care provider may use a fluid sample from the small intestine to check for bacteria to diagnose small intestinal bacterial overgrowth.    - Flexible sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy. While these tests are similar, a health care provider uses a colonoscopy to view the rectum and entire colon and a flexible sigmoidoscopy to view just the rectum and lower colon. A gastroenterologist performs these tests at a hospital or an outpatient center. For both tests, the health care provider will give written bowel prep instructions for the child to follow at home. The health care provider may ask that the child follow a clear liquid diet the day before either test. The child may require a laxative for 4 days before either test or only the day before either test. The child may require an enema the day before either test. These medications cause diarrhea, so the child should stay close to a bathroom during the bowel prep.  In most cases, light anesthesia, and possibly pain medication, helps the child relax. For either test, the child will lie on a table while the gastroenterologist inserts a flexible tube into the anus. A small camera on the tube sends a video image of the intestinal lining to a computer screen. The gastroenterologist may also perform a biopsy by taking a small piece of tissue from the intestinal lining. The child will not feel the biopsy. These tests can show problems in the rectum or colon, such as signs of IBD.  Cramping or bloating may occur during the first hour after these tests. The child should recover fully by the next day and be able to return to a normal diet.

Question: What causes Irritable Bowel Syndrome in Children ?
Answer: The causes of IBS are not well understood. Researchers believe a combination of physical and mental health problems can lead to IBS. The possible causes of IBS in children include the following:
                
- Brain-gut signal problems. Signals between the brain and nerves of the small and large intestines, also called the gut, control how the intestines work. Problems with brain-gut signals may cause IBS symptoms, such as changes in bowel habits and pain or discomfort.  - GI motor problems. Normal motility, or movement, may not be present in the colon of a child who has IBS. Slow motility can lead to constipation and fast motility can lead to diarrhea. Spasms, or sudden strong muscle contractions that come and go, can cause abdominal pain. Some children with IBS also experience hyperreactivity, which is an excessive increase in contractions of the bowel in response to stress or eating.  - Hypersensitivity. Children with IBS have greater sensitivity to abdominal pain than children without IBS. Affected children have been found to have different rectal tone and rectal motor response after eating a meal.  - Mental health problems. IBS has been linked to mental health, or psychological, problems such as anxiety and depression in children.  - Bacterial gastroenteritis. Some children who have bacterial gastroenteritisan infection or irritation of the stomach and intestines caused by bacteriadevelop IBS. Research has shown a connection between gastroenteritis and IBS in adults but not in children. But researchers believe postinfectious IBS does occur in children. Researchers do not know why gastroenteritis leads to IBS in some people and not others.  - Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO). Normally, few bacteria live in the small intestine. SIBO is an increase in the number of bacteria or a change in the type of bacteria in the small intestine. These bacteria can produce excess gas and may also cause diarrhea and weight loss. Some researchers believe that SIBO may lead to IBS, and some studies have shown antibiotics to be effective in treating IBS. However, the studies were weak and more research is needed to show a link between SIBO and IBS.  - Genetics. Whether IBS has a genetic cause, meaning it runs in families, is unclear. Studies have shown that IBS is more common in people with family members who have a history of GI problems. However, the cause could be environmental or the result of heightened awareness of GI symptoms.

Question: What causes What I need to know about Gestational Diabetes ?
Answer: Gestational diabetes happens when your body can't make enough insulin during pregnancy. Insulin is a hormone made in your pancreas, an organ located behind your stomach. Insulin helps your body use glucose for energy and helps control your blood glucose levels.
                
During pregnancy, your body makes more hormones and goes through other changes, such as weight gain. These changes cause your body's cells to use insulin less effectively, a condition called insulin resistance. Insulin resistance increases your body's need for insulin. If your pancreas can't make enough insulin, you will have gestational diabetes.
                
All pregnant women have some insulin resistance during late pregnancy. However, some women have insulin resistance even before they get pregnant, usually because they are overweight. These women start pregnancy with an increased need for insulin and are more likely to have gestational diabetes.
                

                
What are my chances of getting gestational diabetes?   Your chances of getting gestational diabetes are higher if you   - are overweight   - have had gestational diabetes before   - have given birth to a baby weighing more than 9 pounds   - have a parent, brother, or sister with type 2 diabetes   - have prediabetes, meaning your blood glucose levels are higher than normal yet not high enough for a diagnosis of diabetes   - are African American, American Indian, Asian American, Hispanic/Latina, or Pacific Islander American   - have a hormonal disorder called polycystic ovary syndrome, also known as PCOS

Question: What causes Childhood Brain Stem Glioma ?
Answer: The cause of most childhood brain tumors is unknown.

Question: What causes Childhood Central Nervous System Germ Cell Tumors ?
Answer: The cause of most childhood CNS germ cell tumors is not known.

Question: What causes Childhood Extracranial Germ Cell Tumors ?
Answer: The cause of most childhood extracranial germ cell tumors is unknown.

Question: What causes Childhood Ependymoma ?
Answer: The cause of most childhood brain tumors is unknown.

Question: What causes Childhood Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors ?
Answer: The cause of most childhood brain and spinal cord tumors is unknown.

Question: What causes Adult Central Nervous System Tumors ?
Answer: The cause of most adult brain and spinal cord tumors is not known.

Question: What causes Childhood Astrocytomas ?
Answer: The cause of most childhood brain tumors is not known.

Question: What causes Low Vision ?
Answer: Eye Diseases and Health Conditions Most people develop low vision because of eye diseases and health conditions like macular degeneration, cataracts, glaucoma, and diabetes. Your eye care professional can tell the difference between normal changes in the aging eye and those caused by eye diseases. Injuries and Birth Defects A few people develop vision loss after eye injuries or from birth defects. Although vision that is lost usually cannot be restored, many people can make the most of the vision they have. How a Scene Looks to People With Normal and Low Vision Scene as viewed by a person with normal vision. Scene as viewed by a person with diabetic retinopathy. Scene as viewed by a person with age-related macular degeneration. Scene as viewed by a person with glaucoma. Scene as viewed by a person with cataracts.

Question: What causes Low Vision ?
Answer: Low vision can result from a variety of diseases, disorders, and injuries that affect the eye. Many people with low vision have age-related macular degeneration, cataracts, glaucoma, or diabetic retinopathy. Age-related macular degeneration accounts for almost 45 percent of all cases of low vision.

Question: What causes Gout ?
Answer: A Buildup of Uric Acid Most people with gout have too much uric acid in their blood, a condition called hyperuricemia. Uric acid is a substance that results from the breakdown of purines which are a part of all human tissue and found in many foods. Needle-like crystals of uric acid can build up in the connective tissue, in the joint space between two bones, or both. If too many uric acid crystals form as a result of hyperuricemia, gout can develop. Risk Factors These risk factors are associated with gout. - Genetics. Many people with gout have a family history of the disease.  Genetics. Many people with gout have a family history of the disease. - Gender and age. Gout is more common in men than in women and more common in adults than in children. Gender and age. Gout is more common in men than in women and more common in adults than in children. - Weight. Being overweight increases the risk of developing gout because there is more tissue available for turnover or breakdown, which leads to excess uric acid production. Weight. Being overweight increases the risk of developing gout because there is more tissue available for turnover or breakdown, which leads to excess uric acid production. - Alcohol consumption. Drinking too much alcohol can lead to a buildup of uric acid because alcohol interferes with the removal of uric acid from the body. Alcohol consumption. Drinking too much alcohol can lead to a buildup of uric acid because alcohol interferes with the removal of uric acid from the body. - Diet. Eating too many foods that are rich in purines such as liver, dried beans and peas, anchovies and gravies, can cause or aggravate gout in some people. Diet. Eating too many foods that are rich in purines such as liver, dried beans and peas, anchovies and gravies, can cause or aggravate gout in some people. - Lead exposure. In some cases, exposure to lead in the environment can cause gout. Lead exposure. In some cases, exposure to lead in the environment can cause gout. - Other health problems. Renal insufficiency, or the inability of the kidneys to eliminate waste products, is a common cause of gout in older people. Other medical problems that contribute to high blood levels of uric acid include       -  high blood pressure     -  hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid gland)     - conditions that cause an excessively rapid turnover of cells, such as psoriasis, hemolytic anemia, or some cancers     - Kelley-Seegmiller syndrome or Lesch-Nyhan syndrome, two rare conditions in which the enzyme that helps control uric acid levels either is not present or is found in insufficient quantities.     Other health problems. Renal insufficiency, or the inability of the kidneys to eliminate waste products, is a common cause of gout in older people. Other medical problems that contribute to high blood levels of uric acid include     -  high blood pressure    -  hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid gland)    - conditions that cause an excessively rapid turnover of cells, such as psoriasis, hemolytic anemia, or some cancers    - Kelley-Seegmiller syndrome or Lesch-Nyhan syndrome, two rare conditions in which the enzyme that helps control uric acid levels either is not present or is found in insufficient quantities.   -  high blood pressure   -  hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid gland)   - conditions that cause an excessively rapid turnover of cells, such as psoriasis, hemolytic anemia, or some cancers   - Kelley-Seegmiller syndrome or Lesch-Nyhan syndrome, two rare conditions in which the enzyme that helps control uric acid levels either is not present or is found in insufficient quantities. high blood pressure hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid gland) conditions that cause an excessively rapid turnover of cells, such as psoriasis, hemolytic anemia, or some cancers Kelley-Seegmiller syndrome or Lesch-Nyhan syndrome, two rare conditions in which the enzyme that helps control uric acid levels either is not present or is found in insufficient quantities. - Medications. A number of medications may put people at risk for developing hyperuricemia and gout. They include           - diuretics, which are taken to eliminate excess fluid from the body in conditions like hypertension, edema, and heart disease, and which decrease the amount of uric acid passed in the urine     -  salicylate-containing drugs, such as aspirin     - niacin, a vitamin also known as nicotinic acid     - cyclosporine, a medication that suppresses the bodys immune system (the system that protects the body from infection and disease). This medication is used in the treatment of some autoimmune diseases and to prevent the bodys rejection of transplanted organs.    -  levodopa, a medicine used in the treatment of Parkinsons disease.      Medications. A number of medications may put people at risk for developing hyperuricemia and gout. They include         - diuretics, which are taken to eliminate excess fluid from the body in conditions like hypertension, edema, and heart disease, and which decrease the amount of uric acid passed in the urine    -  salicylate-containing drugs, such as aspirin    - niacin, a vitamin also known as nicotinic acid    - cyclosporine, a medication that suppresses the bodys immune system (the system that protects the body from infection and disease). This medication is used in the treatment of some autoimmune diseases and to prevent the bodys rejection of transplanted organs.   -  levodopa, a medicine used in the treatment of Parkinsons disease.    - diuretics, which are taken to eliminate excess fluid from the body in conditions like hypertension, edema, and heart disease, and which decrease the amount of uric acid passed in the urine   -  salicylate-containing drugs, such as aspirin   - niacin, a vitamin also known as nicotinic acid   - cyclosporine, a medication that suppresses the bodys immune system (the system that protects the body from infection and disease). This medication is used in the treatment of some autoimmune diseases and to prevent the bodys rejection of transplanted organs.  -  levodopa, a medicine used in the treatment of Parkinsons disease.  diuretics, which are taken to eliminate excess fluid from the body in conditions like hypertension, edema, and heart disease, and which decrease the amount of uric acid passed in the urine salicylate-containing drugs, such as aspirin niacin, a vitamin also known as nicotinic acid cyclosporine, a medication that suppresses the bodys immune system (the system that protects the body from infection and disease). This medication is used in the treatment of some autoimmune diseases and to prevent the bodys rejection of transplanted organs. levodopa, a medicine used in the treatment of Parkinsons disease.

Question: What causes Gout ?
Answer: Most people with gout have too much uric acid in their blood, a condition called hyperuricemia. Uric acid is a substance that results from the breakdown of purines, which are part of all human tissue and are found in many foods, especially those high in protein. Needle-like crystals of uric acid can build up in the connective tissue, in the joint space between two bones, or both. If too many uric acid crystals form as a result of hyperuricemia, gout can develop.

Question: What causes Quitting Smoking for Older Adults ?
Answer: Yes. Smoking is the leading cause of cancer in the United States, and it increases the risk of many types of cancer, including -  lung cancer  - throat cancer  -  mouth cancer  -  nasal cavity cancer (cancer in the airways of the nose)  - esophageal cancer (cancer of the esophagus)  - stomach cancer  -  pancreatic cancer (cancer of the pancreas)  -  kidney cancer   - bladder cancer  -  cervical cancer (cancer of the cervix)  -  acute myeloid leukemia (blood cancer).  lung cancer throat cancer  mouth cancer  nasal cavity cancer (cancer in the airways of the nose) esophageal cancer (cancer of the esophagus) stomach cancer  pancreatic cancer (cancer of the pancreas)  kidney cancer  bladder cancer  cervical cancer (cancer of the cervix)  acute myeloid leukemia (blood cancer). If you smoke, you are up to 10 times more likely to get cancer than a person who has never smoked. This depends on how much and how long you smoked.

Question: What causes High Blood Cholesterol ?
Answer: Many things can affect the level of cholesterol in your blood. You can control some of these things but not others. What You Can Control You can control - what you eat  - your weight  - your activity level. what you eat your weight your activity level. Your Diet Certain foods have several types of fat that raise your cholesterol level. - Saturated fat increases your LDL cholesterol level more than anything else in your diet.  Saturated fat is found mostly in foods that come from animal sources such as egg yolks, meat, and milk products, including butter, cream and cheese. These foods also contain cholesterol. Saturated fat increases your LDL cholesterol level more than anything else in your diet.  Saturated fat is found mostly in foods that come from animal sources such as egg yolks, meat, and milk products, including butter, cream and cheese. These foods also contain cholesterol. -   Trans fatty acids, or trans fats, also raise your LDL cholesterol level.  These mostly come from vegetable oil that has gone through a process called hydrogenation to make it hard. Examples of foods containing trans fats include many convenience foods such as doughnuts, French fries, cookies, cakes and pastries.  Trans fatty acids, or trans fats, also raise your LDL cholesterol level.  These mostly come from vegetable oil that has gone through a process called hydrogenation to make it hard. Examples of foods containing trans fats include many convenience foods such as doughnuts, French fries, cookies, cakes and pastries. Your Weight Being overweight tends to - increase your LDL level  - lower your HDL level  - increase your total cholesterol level. increase your LDL level lower your HDL level increase your total cholesterol level. Your Activity Level If you don't exercise regularly, you may gain weight. This could increase your LDL cholesterol level. Regular exercise can help you lose weight and lower your LDL level. It can also help you increase your HDL level. What You Cannot Control You cannot control some things that can affect the level of cholesterol in your blood, including - your heredity  - your age  - your sex. your heredity your age your sex. High blood cholesterol can run in families. For most people, their cholesterol level is the result of an interaction between their genes and their lifestyles. As we get older, our cholesterol levels rise. - Before menopause, women tend to have lower total cholesterol levels than men of the same age.  - After menopause, women's LDL (bad) cholesterol levels tend to increase. Before menopause, women tend to have lower total cholesterol levels than men of the same age. After menopause, women's LDL (bad) cholesterol levels tend to increase.

Question: What causes Lung Cancer ?
Answer: Tobacco Products and Cancer Using tobacco products has been shown to cause cancer. In fact, smoking tobacco, using smokeless tobacco, and being exposed regularly to secondhand tobacco smoke are responsible for a large number of cancer deaths in the U.S. each year. Cigarette Smoking Causes Lung Cancer Cigarette smoking is the number one cause of lung cancer. Scientists have reported widely on the link between cancer and smoking since the 1960s. Since then, study after study has provided more proof that cigarette smoking is the primary cause of lung cancer. Before cigarette smoking became popular after World War I, doctors rarely, if ever, saw patients with lung cancer. But today, lung cancer is the leading cause of death by cancer. Over 85 percent of people with lung cancer developed it because they smoked cigarettes. If You Smoke If you smoke cigarettes, you are at much higher risk for lung cancer than a person who has never smoked. The risk of dying from lung cancer is 23 times higher for men who smoke and 13 times higher for women who smoke than for people who have never smoked. Lung cancer can affect young and old alike.  Stopping smoking greatly reduces your risk for developing lung cancer. After you stop, your risk levels off. Ten years after the last cigarette, the risk of dying from lung cancer drops by 50 percent -- which does not mean, however, that risk is eliminated. (Watch the videos on this page to learn more about lung cancer, smoking and older adults. To enlarge the videos, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner of the video screen. To reduce the videos, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.) Smoking cigars and pipes also puts you at risk for lung cancer. Cigar and pipe smokers have a higher risk of lung cancer than nonsmokers. Even cigar and pipe smokers who do not inhale are at increased risk for lung, mouth, and other types of cancer. The likelihood that a smoker will develop lung cancer is related to the age smoking began; how long the person smoked; the number of cigarettes, pipes, or cigars smoked per day; and how deeply the smoker inhaled.  Learn about lung cancer prevention. Other Factors That Increase Your Risk - Many studies suggest that non-smokers who are exposed to environmental tobacco smoke, also called secondhand smoke, are at increased risk of lung cancer. Secondhand smoke is the smoke that non-smokers are exposed to when they share air space with someone who is smoking. Tobacco smoke contains more than 7,000 chemicals, including hundreds that are toxic and about 70 that can cause cancer. Since 1964, approximately 2,500,000 nonsmokers have died from health problems caused by exposure to secondhand smoke.   - Exposure to radon can put a person at risk for lung cancer, too. People who work in mines may be exposed to this invisible, odorless, and radioactive gas that occurs naturally in soil and rocks. It is also found in houses in some parts of the country. A kit available at most hardware stores allows homeowners to measure radon levels in their homes.   - Another substance that can contribute to lung cancer is asbestos. Asbestos has been used in shipbuilding, asbestos mining and manufacturing, insulation work, and brake repair, although products with asbestos have been largely phased out over the past several decades. If inhaled, asbestos particles can lodge in the lungs, damaging cells and increasing the risk for lung cancer.  Many studies suggest that non-smokers who are exposed to environmental tobacco smoke, also called secondhand smoke, are at increased risk of lung cancer. Secondhand smoke is the smoke that non-smokers are exposed to when they share air space with someone who is smoking. Tobacco smoke contains more than 7,000 chemicals, including hundreds that are toxic and about 70 that can cause cancer. Since 1964, approximately 2,500,000 nonsmokers have died from health problems caused by exposure to secondhand smoke. Exposure to radon can put a person at risk for lung cancer, too. People who work in mines may be exposed to this invisible, odorless, and radioactive gas that occurs naturally in soil and rocks. It is also found in houses in some parts of the country. A kit available at most hardware stores allows homeowners to measure radon levels in their homes. Another substance that can contribute to lung cancer is asbestos. Asbestos has been used in shipbuilding, asbestos mining and manufacturing, insulation work, and brake repair, although products with asbestos have been largely phased out over the past several decades. If inhaled, asbestos particles can lodge in the lungs, damaging cells and increasing the risk for lung cancer. It's Never Too Late To Quit  Researchers continue to study the causes of lung cancer and to search for ways to prevent it. We already know that the best way to prevent lung cancer is to quit or never start smoking. The sooner a person quits smoking the better. Even if you have been smoking for many years, it's never too late to benefit from quitting. Get Free Help To Quit Smoking - Each U.S. state and territory has a free quit line to provide you with information and resources to help you quit smoking. To reach the quit line in your area, dial toll-free, 1-800-QUIT-NOW (1-800-784-8669). Each U.S. state and territory has a free quit line to provide you with information and resources to help you quit smoking. To reach the quit line in your area, dial toll-free, 1-800-QUIT-NOW (1-800-784-8669). - Talk with a smoking cessation counselor from the National Cancer Institute (NCI) for help quitting and for answers to smoking-related questions in English or Spanish. Call toll free within the United States, Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Eastern Time.1-877-44U-QUIT (1-877-448-7848) Talk with a smoking cessation counselor from the National Cancer Institute (NCI) for help quitting and for answers to smoking-related questions in English or Spanish. Call toll free within the United States, Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Eastern Time.1-877-44U-QUIT (1-877-448-7848) - Get free information and advice about quitting smoking through a confidential online text chat with an information specialist from the National Cancer Institute's Cancer Information Service. Visit LiveHelp, available Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. Eastern Time. Get free information and advice about quitting smoking through a confidential online text chat with an information specialist from the National Cancer Institute's Cancer Information Service. Visit LiveHelp, available Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. Eastern Time. You can also get help to quit smoking at these websites. - Smokefree.gov.  - Smokefree Women  Smokefree.gov. Smokefree Women For adults 50 and older, check out Quitting Smoking for Older Adults.

Question: What causes Lung Cancer ?
Answer: Cigarette smoking is the number one cause of lung cancer. Scientists have reported widely on the link between cancer and smoking since the 1960s. Since then, study after study has provided more proof that cigarette smoking is the primary cause of lung cancer. Before cigarette smoking became popular after World War I, doctors rarely, if ever, saw patients with lung cancer. But today, lung cancer is the leading cause of death by cancer. Over 85 percent of people with lung cancer developed it because they smoked cigarettes. Using tobacco products has been shown to cause many types of cancer. In fact, smoking tobacco, using smokeless tobacco, and being exposed regularly to second-hand tobacco smoke are responsible for a large number of cancer deaths in the U.S. each year.

Question: What causes Lung Cancer ?
Answer: Some studies suggest that non-smokers who are exposed to environmental tobacco smoke, also called secondhand smoke, are at increased risk of lung cancer. Secondhand smoke is the smoke that non-smokers are exposed to when they share air space with someone who is smoking. Tobacco smoke contains more than 7,000 chemicals, including hundreds that are toxic and about 70 that can cause cancer. Since 1964, approximately 2,500,000 nonsmokers have died from health problems caused by exposure to secondhand smoke.  Learn more about the effects of secondhand smoke.  Learn more about the chemicals found in cigarettes.

Question: What causes Age-related Macular Degeneration ?
Answer: Drusen alone do not usually cause vision loss. In fact, scientists are unclear about the connection between drusen and AMD. They do know that an increase in the size or number of drusen raises a person's risk of developing either advanced dry AMD or wet AMD. These changes can cause serious vision loss.

Question: What causes Osteoarthritis ?
Answer: Risk Increases With Age Researchers suspect that osteoarthritis is caused by a combination of factors in the body and the environment. The chance of developing osteoarthritis increases with age. It is estimated that 33.6% (12.4 million) of individuals age 65 and older are affected by the disease. Wear and Tear on Joints Affects Cartilage Osteoarthritis often results from years of wear and tear on joints. This wear and tear mostly affects the cartilage, the tissue that cushions the ends of bones within the joint. Osteoarthritis occurs when the cartilage begins to fray, wear away, and decay. Putting too much stress on a joint that has been previously injured, improper alignment of joints, and excess weight all may contribute to the development of osteoarthritis.

Question: What causes Osteoarthritis ?
Answer: Osteoarthritis often results from years of wear and tear on joints. This wear and tear mostly affects the cartilage, the tissue that cushions the ends of bones within the joint. Osteoarthritis occurs when the cartilage begins to fray, wear away, and decay. Putting too much stress on a joint that has been repeatedly injured may lead to the development of osteoarthritis, too. A person who is overweight is more likely to develop osteoarthritis because of too much stress on the joints. Also, improper joint alignment may lead to the development of osteoarthritis.

Question: What causes Glaucoma ?
Answer: Nearly 2.7 million people have glaucoma, a leading cause of blindness in the United States. Although anyone can get glaucoma, some people are at higher risk. They include - African-Americans over age 40  - everyone over age 60, especially Hispanics/Latinos  - people with a family history of glaucoma. African-Americans over age 40 everyone over age 60, especially Hispanics/Latinos people with a family history of glaucoma.  In addition to age, eye pressure is a risk factor. Whether you develop glaucoma depends on the level of pressure your optic nerve can tolerate without being damaged. This level is different for each person. Thats why a comprehensive dilated eye exam is very important. It can help your eye care professional determine what level of eye pressure is normal for you. Another risk factor for optic nerve damage relates to blood pressure. Thus, it is important to also make sure that your blood pressure is at a proper level for your body by working with your medical doctor. (Watch the animated video to learn more about the causes of glaucoma. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.)

Question: What causes Kidney Disease ?
Answer: Kidney disease is most often caused by diabetes or high blood pressure. Each kidney contains about one million tiny filters made up of blood vessels. These filters are called glomeruli. Diabetes and high blood pressure damage these blood vessels, so the kidneys are not able to filter the blood as well as they used to. Usually this damage happens slowly, over many years. As more and more filters are damaged, the kidneys eventually stop working.

Question: What causes Peripheral Arterial Disease (P.A.D.) ?
Answer: The most common cause of P.A.D. is atherosclerosis, a buildup of plaque in the arteries. Over time, plaque can harden and narrow the arteries. This limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your organs and other parts of your body.

Question: What causes Rheumatoid Arthritis ?
Answer: Actual Cause Is Unknown Scientists believe that rheumatoid arthritis may result from the interaction of many factors such as genetics, hormones, and the environment. Although rheumatoid arthritis sometimes runs in families, the actual cause of rheumatoid arthritis is still unknown. Research suggests that a person's genetic makeup is an important part of the picture, but not the whole story. Some evidence shows that infectious agents, such as viruses and bacteria, may trigger rheumatoid arthritis in people with an inherited tendency to develop the disease. However, a specific agent or agents are not yet known. Not Contagious It is important to note that rheumatoid arthritis is not contagious. A person cannot catch it from someone else.  Learn more about the causes of rheumatoid arthritis.

Question: What causes Rheumatoid Arthritis ?
Answer: Scientists believe that rheumatoid arthritis may result from the interaction of many factors such as genetics, hormones, and the environment. Although rheumatoid arthritis sometimes runs in families, the actual cause of rheumatoid arthritis is still unknown. Research suggests that a person's genetic makeup is an important part of the picture, but not the whole story. Some evidence shows that infectious agents, such as viruses and bacteria, may trigger rheumatoid arthritis in people with an inherited tendency to develop the disease. The exact agent or agents, however, are not yet known. It is important to note that rheumatoid arthritis is not contagious. A person cannot catch it from someone else. Learn more about the causes of rheumatoid arthritis.

Question: What causes Diabetic Retinopathy ?
Answer: Who Is at Risk? All people with diabetes -- both type 1 and type 2 -- are at risk for diabetic retinopathy. People with diabetes are also at increased risk for cataract and glaucoma. That's why everyone with diabetes should get a comprehensive dilated eye exam at least once a year. Between 40 to 45 percent of Americans diagnosed with diabetes have some stage of diabetic retinopathy. If you have diabetic retinopathy, your doctor can recommend treatment to help prevent its progression. How Vision Loss Occurs Blood vessels damaged from diabetic retinopathy can cause vision loss in two ways. Fragile, abnormal blood vessels can develop and leak blood into the center of the eye, blurring vision. This is proliferative retinopathy and is the fourth and most advanced stage of the disease. Fluid can leak into the center of the macula, the part of the eye where sharp, straight-ahead vision occurs. The fluid makes the macula swell, blurring vision. This condition is called macular edema. Macular edema can occur at any stage of diabetic retinopathy, although it is more likely to occur as the disease progresses. About half of the people with proliferative retinopathy also have macular edema. Macular edema can occur at any stage of diabetic retinopathy, although it is more likely to occur as the disease progresses. About half of the people with proliferative retinopathy also have macular edema. Have Dilated Eye Exams The National Eye Institute (NEI) urges everyone with diabetes to have a comprehensive dilated eye exam at least once a year. If you have diabetic retinopathy, you may need an eye exam more often. People with proliferative retinopathy can reduce their risk of blindness by 95 percent with timely treatment and appropriate follow-up care.  Watch an animation to see what a comprehensive dilated eye exam includes.

Question: What causes Diabetic Retinopathy ?
Answer: Blood vessels damaged from diabetic retinopathy can cause vision loss in two ways. Fragile, abnormal blood vessels can develop and leak blood into the center of the eye, blurring vision. This is proliferative retinopathy and is the fourth and most advanced stage of the disease. Fluid can leak into the center of the macula, the part of the eye where sharp, straight-ahead vision occurs. The fluid makes the macula swell, blurring vision. This condition is called macular edema. It can occur at any stage of diabetic retinopathy, although it is more likely to occur as the disease progresses. About half of the people with proliferative retinopathy also have macular edema.

Question: What causes Prescription and Illicit Drug Abuse ?
Answer: Medications affect older people differently than younger people because aging changes how the body and brain handle these substances. As we age, our bodies change and cannot break down and get rid of substances as easily as before. This means that even a small amount of a medicine or a drug can have a strong effect. If you take medications the wrong way or abuse illicit drugs, this can have a serious effect on your health and make existing health problems worse. As people age, they may also become more sensitive to alcohols effects. For more information on the dangers of mixing alcohol and medicines, see Alcohol Use and Older Adults."

Question: What causes COPD ?
Answer: Smoking Most cases of COPD develop over time, from breathing in fumes and other things that irritate the lungs. Some of the things that put you at risk for COPD include smoking, environmental exposure, and genetic factors. Cigarette smoking is the most common cause of COPD in the United States (either current or former smokers). Pipe, cigar, and other types of tobacco smoking can also cause COPD, especially if the smoke is inhaled. Environmental Exposure COPD can also occur in people who have had long-term exposure to things that can irritate your lungs, like chemical fumes, or dust from the environment or workplace. Heavy or long-term exposure to secondhand smoke or other air pollutants may also contribute to COPD even if you have never smoked or had long-term exposure to harmful pollutants. Secondhand smoke is smoke in the air from other people smoking. Genetic Factors In a small number of people, COPD is caused by a genetic condition known as alpha-1 antitrypsin, or AAT, deficiency. People who have this condition have low levels of alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT)a protein made in the liver. Having a low level of the AAT protein can lead to lung damage and COPD if you're exposed to smoke or other lung irritants. If you have this condition and smoke, COPD can worsen very quickly. While very few people know if they have AAT deficiency, it is estimated that about 1 in every 1,600 people to about 1 in every 5,000 people have it. People with AAT deficiency can get COPD even if they have never smoked or had long-term exposure to harmful pollutants. Asthma Although uncommon, some people who have asthma can develop COPD. Asthma is a chronic (long-term) lung disease that inflames and narrows the airways. Treatment usually can reverse the inflammation and narrowing. However, if not, COPD can develop.

Question: What causes COPD ?
Answer: COPD is a disease that slowly worsens over time, especially if you continue to smoke. If you have COPD, you are more likely to have lung infections, which can be fatal. If the lungs are severely damaged, the heart may be affected. A person with COPD dies when the lungs and heart are unable to function and get oxygen to the body's organs and tissues, or when a complication, such as a severe infection, occurs. Treatment for COPD may help prevent complications, prolong life, and improve a person's quality of life.

Question: What causes COPD ?
Answer: Cigarette smoking is the most common cause of COPD. Most people with COPD are smokers or have been smokers in the past. Breathing in other fumes and dusts over long periods of time can also lead to COPD. Pipe, cigar, and other types of tobacco smoking can cause COPD, especially if the smoke is inhaled. Exposure to secondhand smoke can play a role in causing COPD. Most people with COPD are at least 40 years old or around middle age when symptoms start.

Question: What causes Dry Mouth ?
Answer: People get dry mouth when the glands in the mouth that make saliva are not working properly. Because of this, there might not be enough saliva to keep your mouth healthy. There are several reasons why these glands, called salivary glands, might not work right. Medicines and Dry Mouth More than 400 medicines, including some over-the-counter medications, can cause the salivary glands to make less saliva, or to change the composition of the saliva so that it can't perform the functions it should. As an example, medicines for urinary incontinence, allergies, high blood pressure, and depression often cause dry mouth. Diseases That Can Cause Dry Mouth Some diseases can affect the salivary glands. Dry mouth can occur in patients with diabetes. Dry mouth is also the hallmark symptom of the fairly common autoimmune disease Sjgren's syndrome. Sjgren's syndrome can occur either by itself or with another autoimmune disease like rheumatoid arthritis or lupus. Salivary and tear glands are the major targets of the syndrome and the result is a decrease in production of saliva and tears. The disorder can occur at any age, but the average person with the disorder at the Sjgren's Syndrome Clinic of the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research (NIDCR) is in his or her late 50s. Women with the disorder outnumber men 9 to 1. Cancer Treatments and Dry Mouth Certain cancer treatments can affect the salivary glands. Head and neck radiation therapy can cause the glands to produce little or no saliva. Chemotherapy may cause the salivary glands to produce thicker saliva, which makes the mouth feel dry and sticky. Injury to the head or neck can damage the nerves that tell salivary glands to make saliva.

Question: What causes Dry Mouth ?
Answer: Dry mouth can cause several problems, including difficulty tasting, chewing, swallowing, and speaking. Swallowing may be especially difficult for those with too little saliva. For example, people with dry mouth may be unable to swallow dry food at all unless they also drink fluids with food. They also need to take small bites of food and be very aware of chewing and swallowing so they don't choke. Dry mouth may also increase the chance of developing dental decay as well as oral fungal infections such as thrush, which causes painful white patches in the mouth.

Question: What causes Dry Mouth ?
Answer: Yes. More than 400 medicines, including some over-the-counter medications, can cause the salivary glands to make less saliva, or to change the composition of the saliva so that it can't perform the functions it should. As an example, medicines for urinary incontinence, allergies, high blood pressure, and depression often cause dry mouth.

Question: What causes Dry Mouth ?
Answer: Some diseases affect the salivary glands. Sjgren's syndrome and diabetes can cause dry mouth. Injury to the head or neck can damage the nerves that tell salivary glands to make saliva.

Question: What causes Urinary Tract Infections ?
Answer: Most urinary tract infections, or UTIs, are caused by bacteria that enter the urethra and then the bladder. A type of bacteria that normally lives in the bowel (called E. coli) causes most UTIs. UTIs can also be caused by fungus (another type of germ). Who Gets UTIs? Although everyone has some risk for UTIs, some people are more likely to get UTIs than others. These include people who have - spinal cord injuries or other nerve damage around the bladder.  - a blockage in the urinary tract that can trap urine in the bladder. The blockage can be caused by kidney stones, an enlarged prostate, or a birth defect.  - diabetes  - problems with the bodys natural defense (or immune) system  - pelvic organ prolapse, which is when pelvic organs (such as the bladder, rectum, or uterus) shift out of their normal position into the vagina. When pelvic organs are out of place, they can push on the bladder and urethra and make it hard to fully empty the bladder. This causes urine to stay in the bladder. When urine stays in the bladder too long, it makes an infection more likely spinal cord injuries or other nerve damage around the bladder. a blockage in the urinary tract that can trap urine in the bladder. The blockage can be caused by kidney stones, an enlarged prostate, or a birth defect. diabetes problems with the bodys natural defense (or immune) system pelvic organ prolapse, which is when pelvic organs (such as the bladder, rectum, or uterus) shift out of their normal position into the vagina. When pelvic organs are out of place, they can push on the bladder and urethra and make it hard to fully empty the bladder. This causes urine to stay in the bladder. When urine stays in the bladder too long, it makes an infection more likely UTIs in Women More than half of women will have at least one UTI in their lifetime. Women are more likely than men to get UTIs because they have a shorter urethra, making it easier for bacteria to reach the bladder. Also, the bowel and urethral openings are closer together in women than in men, making it easier for E. coli (a bacteria that lives in the bowel) to travel from the bowel to the urethra. Many women suffer from frequent UTIs. Some women have 3 or more UTIs a year. However, very few women will have frequent UTIs throughout their lives. More typically, a woman will have a period of 1 or 2 years with frequent UTIs. After this period, the UTIs may stop or happen less often. Older women are more likely to get UTIs because the bladder muscles weaken and make it hard to fully empty the bladder. This causes urine to stay in the bladder. When urine stays in the bladder too long, it makes an infection more likely. UTIs in Men Men are less likely than women to have a first UTI. But once a man has a UTI, he is likely to have another. Bacteria from a UTI can spread to the prostate. Once there, the bacteria can hide deep inside prostate tissue. Prostate infections are hard to cure because antibiotics may not be able to reach the infected prostate tissue. Activities That Can Increase Risk - Having sex. Sexual activity can move bacteria from the bowel or vaginal cavity to the urethral opening. Urinating after sex lowers the risk of infection.  - Using a catheter to urinate. A catheter is a tube placed in the urethra and bladder to help people empty the bladder. The catheter can make a direct path for bacteria to reach the bladder.  - Using certain birth controls. Diaphragms can bring bacteria with them when they are placed. Spermicides (a birth control that kills sperm) may also make UTIs more likely. Having sex. Sexual activity can move bacteria from the bowel or vaginal cavity to the urethral opening. Urinating after sex lowers the risk of infection. Using a catheter to urinate. A catheter is a tube placed in the urethra and bladder to help people empty the bladder. The catheter can make a direct path for bacteria to reach the bladder. Using certain birth controls. Diaphragms can bring bacteria with them when they are placed. Spermicides (a birth control that kills sperm) may also make UTIs more likely.

Question: What causes Prostate Cancer ?
Answer: Scientists don't know exactly what causes prostate cancer. They cannot explain why one man gets prostate cancer and another does not. However, they have been able to identify some risk factors that are associated with the disease. A risk factor is anything that increases your chances of getting a disease.

Question: What causes High Blood Pressure ?
Answer: Changes in Body Functions Researchers continue to study how various changes in normal body functions cause high blood pressure. The key functions affected in high blood pressure include -  kidney fluid and salt balances  -  the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system   - the sympathetic nervous system activity   - blood vessel structure and function. kidney fluid and salt balances the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system the sympathetic nervous system activity blood vessel structure and function. Kidney Fluid and Salt Balances The kidneys normally regulate the bodys salt balance by retaining sodium and water and eliminating potassium. Imbalances in this kidney function can expand blood volumes, which can cause high blood pressure. Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system makes angiotensin and aldosterone hormones. Angiotensin narrows or constricts blood vessels, which can lead to an increase in blood pressure. Aldosterone controls how the kidneys balance fluid and salt levels. Increased aldosterone levels or activity may change this kidney function, leading to increased blood volumes and high blood pressure. Sympathetic Nervous System Activity The sympathetic nervous system has important functions in blood pressure regulation, including heart rate, blood pressure, and breathing rate. Researchers are investigating whether imbalances in this system cause high blood pressure. Blood Vessel Structure and Function Changes in the structure and function of small and large arteries may contribute to high blood pressure. The angiotensin pathway and the immune system may stiffen small and large arteries, which can affect blood pressure. Genetic Causes High blood pressure often runs in families. Years of research have identified many genes and other mutations associated with high blood pressure. However, known genetic factors only account for 2 to 3 percent of all cases. Emerging research suggests that certain DNA changes before birth also may cause the development of high blood pressure later in life. Unhealthy Lifestyle Habits Unhealthy lifestyle habits can cause high blood pressure, including - high sodium intake and sodium sensitivity  - drinking too much alcohol  - lack of physical activity. high sodium intake and sodium sensitivity drinking too much alcohol lack of physical activity. Overweight and Obesity Research studies show that being overweight or obese can increase the resistance in the blood vessels, causing the heart to work harder and leading to high blood pressure. Medicines Prescription medicines such as asthma or hormone therapies (including birth control pills and estrogen) and over-the-counter medicines such as cold relief medicines may cause high blood pressure. This happens because medicines can - change the way your body controls fluid and salt balances  - cause your blood vessels to constrict  -  impact the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, leading to high blood pressure.  change the way your body controls fluid and salt balances cause your blood vessels to constrict impact the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, leading to high blood pressure. Other Causes Other causes of high blood pressure include medical conditions such as chronic kidney disease, sleep apnea, thyroid problems, or certain tumors. These conditions can change the way your body controls fluids, sodium, and hormones in your blood, which leads to secondary high blood pressure.

Question: What causes Heart Failure ?
Answer: Heart failure is caused by other diseases or conditions that damage the heart muscle such as coronary artery disease (including heart attacks), diabetes, and high blood pressure. Treating these problems can prevent or improve heart failure. Coronary Artery Disease Coronary artery disease is a leading cause of death in men and women. It happens when the arteries that supply blood to the heart become hardened and narrowed. High Blood Pressure High blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against the walls of the arteries. If this pressure rises and stays high over time, it can weaken your heart and lead to plaque buildup, which can then lead to heart failure. Diabetes Diabetes is characterized by having too much glucose, or sugar, in the blood for a long time. This can cause heart problems because high blood glucose can damage parts of the body such as the heart and blood vessels. This damage weakens the heart, often leading to heart failure. Other Diseases Other diseases and conditions also can lead to heart failure, such as - Cardiomyopathy (KAR-de-o-mi-OP-ah-thee), or heart muscle disease. Cardiomyopathy may be present at birth or caused by injury or infection.   - Heart valve disease. Problems with the heart valves may be present at birth or caused by infection, heart attack, or damage from heart disease.   - Arrhythmias (ah-RITH-me-ahs), or irregular heartbeats. These heart problems may be present at birth or caused by heart disease or heart defects.   - Congenital (kon-JEN-ih-tal) heart defects. These problems with the heart's structure are present at birth.  Cardiomyopathy (KAR-de-o-mi-OP-ah-thee), or heart muscle disease. Cardiomyopathy may be present at birth or caused by injury or infection. Heart valve disease. Problems with the heart valves may be present at birth or caused by infection, heart attack, or damage from heart disease. Arrhythmias (ah-RITH-me-ahs), or irregular heartbeats. These heart problems may be present at birth or caused by heart disease or heart defects. Congenital (kon-JEN-ih-tal) heart defects. These problems with the heart's structure are present at birth. Other Factors Other factors also can injure the heart muscle and lead to heart failure. Examples include - treatments for cancer, such as radiation and chemotherapy   - thyroid disorders (having either too much or too little thyroid hormone in the body)  - alcohol abuse or cocaine and other illegal drug use   - HIV/AIDS   - too much vitamin E.  treatments for cancer, such as radiation and chemotherapy thyroid disorders (having either too much or too little thyroid hormone in the body) alcohol abuse or cocaine and other illegal drug use HIV/AIDS too much vitamin E. Sleep Apnea Heart damage from obstructive sleep apnea may worsen heart failure. Sleep apnea is a common disorder in which you have one or more pauses in breathing or shallow breaths while you sleep. Sleep apnea can deprive your heart of oxygen and increase its workload. Treating this sleep disorder might improve heart failure. Who Is at Risk? Heart failure can happen to almost anyone. It is the number one reason for hospitalization for people over age 65. Heart failure is more common in - people who are 65 years old or older   - African-Americans  - people who are overweight  - people who have had a heart attack  - men.  people who are 65 years old or older African-Americans people who are overweight people who have had a heart attack men. Aging can weaken the heart muscle. Older people also may have had diseases for many years that led to heart failure. African Americans are more likely to have heart failure than people of other races. They're also more likely to have symptoms at a younger age, have more hospital visits due to heart failure, and die from heart failure.  Excess weight puts strain on the heart. Being overweight also increases your risk of heart disease and type 2 diabetes. These diseases can lead to heart failure. A history of a heart attack puts people at greater risk for heart failure. Men have a higher rate of heart failure than women.

Question: What causes Heart Failure ?
Answer: Heart failure is caused by other diseases and conditions that damage the heart muscle. It is most commonly caused by coronary artery disease, including heart attack. Diabetes and high blood pressure also contribute to heart failure risk. People who have had a heart attack are at high risk of developing heart failure.

Question: What causes Problems with Taste ?
Answer: Loss of taste may be permanent or temporary, depending on the cause. As with vision and hearing, people gradually lose their ability to taste as they get older, but it is usually not as noticeable as loss of smell. Medications and illness can make the normal loss of taste worse. Common Causes Problems with taste are caused by anything that interrupts the transfer of taste sensations to the brain, or by conditions that affect the way the brain interprets the sensation of taste. Some people are born with taste disorders, but most develop them after an injury or illness. Among the causes of taste problems are - medications   - upper respiratory and middle ear infections   - radiation for treatment of head and neck cancers  - exposure to certain chemicals   - head injury   - some surgeries  - poor oral hygiene and dental problems  - smoking. medications upper respiratory and middle ear infections radiation for treatment of head and neck cancers exposure to certain chemicals head injury some surgeries poor oral hygiene and dental problems smoking. In many cases, people regain their sense of taste when they stop taking medications or when the illness or injury clears up. Medications.Taking medications can affect our ability to taste. Some antibiotics and antihistamines as well as other medications can cause a bad taste in the mouth or a loss of taste. One type of taste disorder is characterized by a persistent bad taste in the mouth, such as a bitter or salty taste. This is called dysgeusia and it occurs in older people, usually because of medications or oral health problems. Upper Respiratory and Middle Ear Infections. Respiratory infections such as the flu can lead to taste disorders.  Radiation for Head and Neck Cancers.  People with head and neck cancers who receive radiation treatment to the nose and mouth regions commonly experience problems with their sense of smell and taste as an unfortunate side effect. Older people who have lost their larynx or voice box commonly complain of poor ability to smell and taste.  Exposure to Certain Chemicals.  Sometimes exposure to certain chemicals, such as insecticides and solvents, can impair taste. Avoid contact with these substances, and if you do come in contact with them and experience a problem, see your doctor. Head Injury.  Previous surgery or trauma to the head can impair your sense of taste because the taste nerves may be cut, blocked or physically damaged. Some Surgeries.  Some surgeries to the ear nose and throat can impair taste. These include third molarwisdom toothextraction and middle ear surgery. Poor Oral Hygiene and Dental Problems.  Gum disease can cause problems with taste and so can can dentures and inflammation or infections in the mouth. If you take several medications, your mouth may produce less saliva. This causes dry mouth, which can make swallowing and digestion difficult and increase dental problems. Practice good oral hygiene, keep up to date with your dental appointments, and tell your dentist if you notice any problems with your sense of taste. Smoking. Tobacco smoking is the most concentrated form of pollution that most people are exposed to. Smokers often report an improved sense of taste after quitting. When To See the Doctor Be sure to see your doctor if you have had a taste problem for a while or if you notice that your problem with taste is associated with other symptoms. Let your doctor know if you are taking any medications that might affect your sense of taste. You may be able to change or adjust your medicine to one that will not cause a problem with taste. Your doctor will work with you to get the medicine you need while trying to reduce unwanted side effects.

Question: What causes Problems with Taste ?
Answer: The most common causes of taste disorders are medications, infections, head trauma, and dental problems. Most people who have a problem with taste are taking certain medications or they have had a head or neck injury. Gum disease, dry mouth, and dentures can contribute to taste problems, too. Other causes are radiation therapy for head and neck cancers, smoking, and some surgeries.

Question: What causes Problems with Taste ?
Answer: Yes. Certain medicines can cause a change in our ability to taste. The medicines that most frequently do this are certain antibiotics and some antihistamines, although other medications can affect our sense of taste as well. If your medicine is causing a problem with your sense of taste, your doctor may be able to adjust or change your medicine. If not, he or she may suggest ways to manage your problem. Do not stop taking your medications unless directed by your doctor. Your doctor will work with you to get the medicine you need while trying to reduce unwanted side effects.

Question: What causes Depression ?
Answer: Several lines of research have shown that depressive illnesses are disorders of the brain. But the exact causes for these illnesses are not yet clear and are still being studied. Changes in the Brain Imaging technologies show that the brains of people with depression look different or are working differently than those who do not have the illness. The areas of the brain that control moods, thinking, sleep, appetite, and behavior appear not to be functioning well. The scans also show very high or very low levels of important brain chemicals. But these images do not reveal WHY the depression has occurred. Many Possible Causes In general, there is no one cause or risk factor for depression. It most likely results from many factors, such as family history, life experiences, and environment. Older adults with depression may have had it when they were younger, or they may have a family history of the illness. They may also be going through difficult life events, such as losing a loved one, a difficult relationship with a family member or friend, or financial troubles. For older adults who experience depression for the first time later in life, other factors may be at play. Depression may be related to changes that occur in the brain and body as a person ages. For example, some older adults who are at risk for illnesses such as heart disease or stroke may have hardening and inflammation of the blood vessels, and blood may not be able to flow normally to the body's organs, including the brain. Over time, this blood vessel disease and restricted blood flow can damage nearby brain tissue and harm the nerve connections that help different parts of the brain communicate with each other. If this happens, an older adult with no family history of depression may develop what some doctors call "vascular depression." Older adults may also experience depression as a result of brain changes caused by illnesses such as Alzheimers disease or Parkinsons disease. This type of depression can appear in the early stages of these diseases, before many symptoms appear. Depression Can Occur With Other Illnesses Depression can also co-occur with other serious medical illnesses such as diabetes, cancer, and Parkinson's disease. Depression can make these conditions worse, and vice versa. Sometimes, medications taken for these illnesses may cause side effects that contribute to depression. Because many older adults face these illnesses along with various social and economic difficulties, some health care professionals may wrongly conclude that these problems are the cause of the depression -- an opinion often shared by patients themselves. All these factors can cause depression to go undiagnosed or untreated in older people. Yet, treating the depression will help an older adult better manage other conditions he or she may have.

Question: What causes Creating a Family Health History ?
Answer: Yes. Diet, weight, physical activity, tobacco and alcohol use, occupation, and where you live can each increase or decrease disease risk. For example, smoking increases the chance of developing heart disease and cancer. Sun exposure is the major known environmental factor associated with the development of skin cancer of all types. However, other environmental and genetic factors can also increase a persons risk. The best defense against skin cancer is to encourage sun-protective behaviors, regular skin examinations, and skin self-awareness in an effort to decrease high-risk behaviors and optimize early detection of problems.  Learn more about the causes and risk factors for skin cancer.

Question: What causes Diabetes ?
Answer: Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disease. In an autoimmune reaction, antibodies, or immune cells, attach to the body's own healthy tissues by mistake, signaling the body to attack them. At present, scientists do not know exactly what causes the body's immune system to attack the insulin-producing cells in the pancreas in people with type 1 diabetes. However, many believe that both genetic factors and environmental factors are involved. Studies now are underway to identify these factors and prevent type 1 diabetes in people at risk. Type 2 diabetesthe most common form of diabetesis caused by a combination of factors, including insulin resistance, a condition in which the bodys muscle, fat, and liver cells do not use insulin effectively. Type 2 diabetes develops when the body can no longer produce enough insulin to compensate for the impaired ability to use insulin.  Get more details about who should be tested for diabetes.

Question: What causes Dry Eye ?
Answer: Many factors can lead to dry eye, including aging, medications, problems with eyelid function, disease, some types of surgery, environmental factors, and allergies. Many Older People Have Dry Eye Elderly people often have dryness of the eyes, but dry eye can occur at any age. Nearly five million Americans 50 years of age and older are estimated to have dry eye. Of these, more than three million are women and more than one and a half million are men. Tens of millions more have less severe symptoms. Dry eye is more common after menopause. Women who experience menopause prematurely are more likely to have eye surface damage from dry eye.  Medications Dry eye can be a side effect of some medications, including antihistamines, nasal decongestants, tranquilizers, certain blood pressure medicines, Parkinson's medications, and some anti-depressants. Women who are on hormone replacement therapy may experience dry eye symptoms. Eyelid Function Eyelid function can also be a factor in dry eye. Diseases that affect the eyelid, such as meibomian gland dysfunction, can also cause dry eye. Dry eye may also occur from exposure keratitis, in which the eyelids do not close properly during normal blinking or sleep. Skin diseases on or around the eyelids can result in dry eye. Infrequent blinking associated with staring at computer or video screens also may lead to dry eye symptoms. Systemic Diseases Certain diseases can cause dry eye. Chronic inflammation of the conjunctiva, or the lacrimal glands, can cause dry eye. Immune system disorders such as Sjgren's syndrome, systemic lupus erythematosus, and rheumatoid arthritis also can cause dry eye. Sjgren's syndrome leads to inflammation and dryness of the mouth, eyes, and other mucous membranes. Thyroid disease, which can sometimes cause the eye to bulge out, can also lead to dry eye by increasing the surface area of the eye exposed to the environment. Surgeries Some types of surgery can lead to dry eye. For example, dry eye can develop after the refractive surgery known as LASIK. These symptoms generally last three to six months, but may last longer in some cases. Dry eye can also occur as a result of cosmetic surgery that widens the eyelids too much and increases the surface area of the eye exposed to the environment. Environment Environmental exposure to irritants such as chemical fumes and tobacco smoke, or drafts from air conditioning or heating can cause dry eye. Wearing contact lenses over a long period of time can lead to a loss of feeling in the cornea and this can cause dry eye. Allergies also can be associated with dry eye.

Question: What causes Dry Eye ?
Answer: Most people with dry eye will not have serious problems, but severe dry eye may lead to inflammation, ulcers, or scars on the cornea, and some loss of vision. Permanent loss of vision from dry eye is uncommon.

Question: What causes Dry Eye ?
Answer: If your eyes dont make enough tears it can cause dry eye. Anything that changes the components of tears can cause dry eye. Many factors can lead to dry eye, including aging, medications, problems with eyelid function, disease, some types of eye surgery, environmental factors, and allergies.

Question: What causes Alzheimer's Disease ?
Answer: There are two types of Alzheimers diseaseearly-onset and late-onset. Early-onset Alzheimers is a rare form of the disease that occurs in people age 30 to 60. It occurs in less than 5 percent of all people with Alzheimers. Almost all people with Alzheimers disease have late-onset Alzheimer's, which usually develops after age 60. Causes Not Fully Understood Scientists do not yet fully understand what causes Alzheimer's disease in most people. In early-onset Alzheimers, a genetic mutation is usually the cause. Late-onset Alzheimers arises from a complex series of brain changes that occur over decades. The causes probably include a mix of genetic, environmental, and lifestyle factors. These factors affect each person differently. Research shows that Alzheimers disease causes changes in the brain years and even decades before the first symptoms appear, so even people who seem free of the disease today may be at risk. Scientists are developing sophisticated tests to help identify who is most likely to develop symptoms of Alzheimers. Ultimately, they hope to prevent or delay dementia in these high-risk individuals. Risk Factors Some risk factors for Alzheimers, like age and genetics, cannot be controlled. Other factors that may play a role in the development of the diseasesuch as how much a person exercises or socializescan be changed. Lifestyle factors, such as diet and physical exercise, and long-term health conditions, like high blood pressure and diabetes, might also play a role in the risk of developing Alzheimers disease. For more information, see the chapter entitled Prevention. Older AgeThe Biggest Risk Factor Increasing age is the most important known risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. The number of people with the disease doubles every 5 years beyond age 65. Nearly half of people age 85 and older may have Alzheimers. These facts are significant because the number of older adults is growing. Genetics Genetics appears to play a part in both early- and late-onset Alzheimers disease. In early-onset Alzheimers, most cases are caused by specific genetic mutations permanent changes in genes that can be passed on from a parent to a child. This results in early-onset familial Alzheimers disease, or FAD. Most people with Alzheimers disease have late-onset Alzheimer's, in which symptoms appear in a persons mid-60s. No obvious family pattern is seen in most of these cases, but certain genetic factors appear to increase a persons risk. Many studies have linked the apolipoprotein E gene to late-onset Alzheimers. One form of this gene, APOE 4, increases a persons risk of getting the disease. But many people who get Alzheimers do not have the APOE 4 gene, and some people with the gene never get Alzheimers. Scientists have identified a number of other genes in addition to APOE 4 that may increase a persons risk for late-onset Alzheimers. Knowing about these genes can help researchers more effectively test possible treatments and prevention strategies in people who are at risk of developing Alzheimers -- ideally, before symptoms appear. Learn more about the genetics of Alzheimers disease.

Question: What causes Alzheimer's Disease ?
Answer: Scientists do not yet fully understand what causes Alzheimer's disease in most people. In early-onset Alzheimers, which occurs in people between the ages of 30 and 60, a genetic mutation is usually the cause. Late-onset Alzheimers, which usually develops after age 60, arises from a complex series of brain changes that occur over decades. The causes probably include a mix of genetic, environmental, and lifestyle factors. These factors affect each person differently. Learn more about the genetics of Alzheimers disease.  Increasing age is the most important known risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. Lifestyle factors, such as diet and physical exercise, and long-term health conditions, like high blood pressure and diabetes, might also play a role in the risk of developing Alzheimers disease.

Question: What causes Shingles ?
Answer: Caused By A Virus Shingles is caused by a virus called varicella-zoster virus -- the one that gave you chickenpox when you were a child. As you recovered from chickenpox, the sores healed and the other symptoms went away, but the virus remained. It is with you for life. The virus hides out in nerve cells, usually in the spine. But it can become active again. Somehow, the virus gets a signal that your immunity has become weakened. This triggers the reactivation. When the virus becomes active again, it follows a nerve path called a dermatome. The nerve path begins at specific points in the spine, continues around one side of the body, and surfaces at the nerve endings in the skin. The pattern of the rash reflects the location of that nerve path. Risk Factors The leading risk factor for shingles is a history of having had chickenpox. One out of every five people who have had chickenpox is likely to get shingles. Another risk factor is aging. As we age, our natural immunity gradually loses its ability to protect against infection. The shingles virus can take advantage of this and become active again. Conditions that weaken the immune system can also put people at risk for shingles. Shingles is especially dangerous for anyone who has had cancer, radiation treatments for cancer, HIV/AIDS, or a transplant operation. Stress is another factor that may contribute to outbreaks. While stress alone does not cause the outbreaks, shingles often occurs in people who have recently had a stressful event in their lives. Most cases of shingles occur in adults. Only about 5 percent of cases occur in children. With children, immune deficiency is the primary risk factor, but children who had chickenpox before they were one year old may also get shingles before they become adults. There have been studies of adults who had chickenpox as children and were later exposed to children who had chickenpox. Interestingly, that exposure apparently boosted the adult's immunity, which actually helped them avoid getting shingles later in life.

Question: What causes Shingles ?
Answer: Shingles is caused by a virus called the varicella-zoster virus -- the one that gave you chickenpox when you were a child. As you recovered from chickenpox, the sores and other symptoms healed, but the virus remained. It is with you for life. Researchers know that the varicella-zoster virus behaves differently from other viruses, such as the flu virus. Our immune system usually kills off invading germs, but it cannot completely knock out this type of virus. The virus just becomes inactive. The virus can become active again, especially in the later years of your life when your immune system doesn't protect you as well from infections. The virus travels from the spinal nerve cells and follows a nerve path out to the skin. Nerve endings in the skin become inflamed and erupt in a very painful rash. Healthcare providers cannot always be sure what the trigger is in each case. They don't know why the virus reactivates in one person with these risk factors, while in another person with the same risk factors, it does not.

Question: What causes Psoriasis ?
Answer: Although the cause of psoriasis is not completely understood, scientists believe it is related to a problem with a type of blood cells called T cells. These cells normally travel through the bloodstream to help fight an infection, but in people with psoriasis, they attack the bodys skin cells by mistake. Genes Play a Role No one knows what causes T cells to go wrong, but certain genes have been linked to psoriasis. People who have these genes are more likely to develop psoriasis than people without the genes. However, genes alone do not cause psoriasis. Scientists believe psoriasis occurs when something in the environment triggers the disease in someone who has one or more of these genes.  Psoriasis Triggers These so-called triggers may be different for different people. Different triggers may start the disease or make it worse in different people. Factors that may trigger psoriasis or make it worse include - physical and emotional stress  - injury to the skin such as cuts or burns  - infections, particularly strep throat  - cold weather   - smoking or heavy alcohol use  - certain medications such as     - lithium, a psychiatric drug   - antimalarials such as hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine    - inderal, a high blood pressure medicine   - quinidine, a heart medication   - indomethacin, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug often used to treat arthritis.   physical and emotional stress injury to the skin such as cuts or burns infections, particularly strep throat cold weather smoking or heavy alcohol use certain medications such as - lithium, a psychiatric drug  - antimalarials such as hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine   - inderal, a high blood pressure medicine  - quinidine, a heart medication  - indomethacin, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug often used to treat arthritis. lithium, a psychiatric drug antimalarials such as hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine inderal, a high blood pressure medicine quinidine, a heart medication indomethacin, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug often used to treat arthritis.

Question: What causes Psoriasis ?
Answer: Although the cause of psoriasis is not completely understood, scientists believe it is related to a problem with a type of blood cells called T cells. These cells normally travel through the bloodstream to help fight an infection, but in people with psoriasis, they attack the bodys skin cells by mistake.

Question: What causes Heart Attack ?
Answer: Most heart attacks are caused by a blood clot that blocks one of the coronary arteries, the blood vessels that bring blood and oxygen to the heart muscle. When blood cannot reach part of your heart, that area starves for oxygen. If the blockage continues long enough, cells in the affected area die. The Most Common Cause Coronary heart disease (CHD)is the most common underlying cause of a heart attack. CHD, also called coronary artery disease, is the hardening and narrowing of the coronary arteries caused by the buildup of plaque inside the walls of the arteries. When plaque builds up in the arteries, the condition is called atherosclerosis (ath-er-o-skler-O-sis). The buildup of plaque occurs over many years. Over time, an area of plaque can rupture (break open) inside of an artery. This causes a blood clot to form on the plaque's surface. If the clot becomes large enough, it can mostly or completely block blood flow through a coronary artery. If the blockage isn't treated quickly, the portion of heart muscle fed by the artery begins to die. Healthy heart tissue is replaced with scar tissue. This heart damage may not be obvious, or it may cause severe or long-lasting problems. Other Causes Heart attack also can occur due to problems with the very small, microscopic blood vessels of the heart. This condition is called microvascular disease. It's believed to be more common in women than in men. A less common cause of heart attacks is a severe spasm or tightening of the coronary artery that cuts off blood flow to the heart. These spasms can occur in persons with or without coronary artery disease. What causes a coronary artery to spasm isn't always clear. A spasm may be related to emotional stress or pain, exposure to extreme cold, cigarette smoking, or by taking certain drugs like cocaine. Risk Factors You Cannot Change Certain factors make it more likely that you will develop coronary artery disease and have a heart attack. These risk factors include some things you cannot change. If you are a man over age 45 or a woman over age 55, you are at greater risk. Having a family history of early heart disease, diagnosed in a father or brother before age 55 or in a mother or sister before age 65, is another risk factor. You are also at risk if you have a personal history of angina or previous heart attack, or if you have had a heart procedure such as percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG). Risk Factors You Can Change Importantly, there are many risk factors that you can change. These include - smoking  - being overweight or obese  - physical inactivity  - high blood pressure  - high blood cholesterol  - high blood sugar due to insulin resistance or diabetes   - an unhealthy diet (for example, a diet high in saturated fat, trans fat, cholesterol, and sodium). smoking being overweight or obese physical inactivity high blood pressure high blood cholesterol high blood sugar due to insulin resistance or diabetes an unhealthy diet (for example, a diet high in saturated fat, trans fat, cholesterol, and sodium). Metabolic Syndrome Some of these risk factorssuch as obesity, high blood pressure, and high blood sugartend to occur together. When they do, it's called metabolic syndrome. In general, a person with metabolic syndrome is twice as likely to develop heart disease and five times as likely to develop diabetes as someone without metabolic syndrome.

Question: What causes Heart Attack ?
Answer: Coronary heart disease, or CHD, is the most common underlying cause of a heart attack. Coronary arteries are the blood vessels that bring blood and oxygen to the heart muscle. Most heart attacks are caused by a blood clot that blocks one of the coronary arteries. When blood cannot reach part of your heart, that area starves for oxygen. If the blockage continues long enough, cells in the affected area die.

Question: What causes Urinary Incontinence ?
Answer: Why Does Urine Leak? The body stores urine in the bladder, which is a hollow organ, much like a balloon. During urination, muscles in the bladder tighten to move urine into a tube called the urethra. At the same time, the muscles around the urethra relax and let the urine pass out of the body. When the muscles in and around the bladder dont work the way they should, urine can leak. Short Periods of Leaking Sometimes urinary incontinence happens for a little while. Short periods of leaking urine can happen because of - urinary tract infections   - constipation  - some medicines.  urinary tract infections constipation some medicines. Longer Periods of Leaking  When leaking urine lasts longer, it may be due to - weak bladder muscles  - weak pelvic floor muscles  - overactive bladder muscles  - damage to nerves that control the bladder from diseases such as multiple sclerosis or Parkinsons disease  - blockage from an enlarged prostate in men  - diseases or conditions, such as arthritis, that may make it difficult to get to the bathroom in time  - pelvic organ prolapse, which is when pelvic organs (such as the bladder, rectum, or uterus) shift out of their normal place into the vagina. When pelvic organs are out of place, the bladder and urethra are not able to work normally, which may cause urine to leak. weak bladder muscles weak pelvic floor muscles overactive bladder muscles damage to nerves that control the bladder from diseases such as multiple sclerosis or Parkinsons disease blockage from an enlarged prostate in men diseases or conditions, such as arthritis, that may make it difficult to get to the bathroom in time pelvic organ prolapse, which is when pelvic organs (such as the bladder, rectum, or uterus) shift out of their normal place into the vagina. When pelvic organs are out of place, the bladder and urethra are not able to work normally, which may cause urine to leak. (Watch the video to learn how aging affects the bladder. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.)

Question: What causes Urinary Incontinence ?
Answer: Leaking urine can happen for many reasons. Sometimes urinary incontinence happens for a little while. Short periods of leaking urine can happen because of - urinary tract infections   - constipation   - some medicines.  urinary tract infections constipation some medicines. When leaking urine lasts longer, it may be due to - weak bladder muscles  - weak pelvic floor muscles  - overactive bladder muscles  - damage to nerves that control the bladder from diseases such as multiple sclerosis or Parkinsons disease  - blockage from an enlarged prostate in men  - diseases or conditions, such as arthritis, that may make it difficult to get to the bathroom in time  - pelvic organ prolapse, which is when pelvic organs (such as the bladder, rectum, or uterus) shift out of their normal place into the vagina. When pelvic organs are out of place, the bladder and urethra are not able to work normally, which may cause urine to leak.  weak bladder muscles weak pelvic floor muscles overactive bladder muscles damage to nerves that control the bladder from diseases such as multiple sclerosis or Parkinsons disease blockage from an enlarged prostate in men diseases or conditions, such as arthritis, that may make it difficult to get to the bathroom in time pelvic organ prolapse, which is when pelvic organs (such as the bladder, rectum, or uterus) shift out of their normal place into the vagina. When pelvic organs are out of place, the bladder and urethra are not able to work normally, which may cause urine to leak. Learn more about urinary incontinence in men.  Learn more about urinary incontinence in women.

Question: What causes Hearing Loss ?
Answer: Hearing loss can result from taking certain medications. "Ototoxic" medications damage the inner ear, sometimes permanently. Check with your doctor if you notice a problem while taking a medication.

Question: What causes Parkinson's Disease ?
Answer: A Shortage of Dopamine Parkinson's disease occurs when nerve cells, or neurons, in an area of the brain that controls movement become impaired and/or die. Normally, these neurons produce an important brain chemical known as dopamine, but when the neurons die or become impaired, they produce less dopamine. This shortage of dopamine causes the movement problems of people with Parkinson's. Dopamine is a chemical messenger, or neurotransmitter. Dopamine is responsible for transmitting signals between the substantia nigra and multiple brain regions. The connection between the substantia nigra and the corpus striatum is critical to produce smooth, purposeful movement. Loss of dopamine in this circuit results in abnormal nerve-firing patterns within the brain that cause impaired movement. Loss of Norepinephrine People with Parkinson's also have loss of the nerve endings that produce the neurotransmitter norepinephrine. Norepinephrine, which is closely related to dopamine, is the main chemical messenger of the sympathetic nervous system. The sympathetic nervous system controls many automatic functions of the body, such as heart rate and blood pressure. The loss of norepinephrine might help explain several of the non-movement features of Parkinson's, such as fatigue, irregular blood pressure, decreased gastric motility or movement of food through the digestive tract, and postural hypotension. Postural hypotension is a sudden drop in blood pressure when a person stands up from a sitting or lying-down position. It may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and in some cases, loss of balance or fainting. Lewy Bodies in Brain Cells Many brain cells of people with Parkinson's contain Lewy bodies. Lewy bodies are unusual deposits or clumps of the brain protein alpha-synuclein, along with other proteins, which are seen upon microscopic examination of the brain. Researchers do not yet know why Lewy bodies form or what role they play in the development of Parkinson's. The clumps may prevent the cell from functioning normally, or they may actually be helpful, perhaps by keeping harmful proteins "locked up" so the cells can function. Genetic Mutations Although some cases of Parkinson's appear to be hereditary, and a few can be traced to specific genetic mutations, most cases are sporadic. Sporadic means the disease occurs randomly and does not seem to run in families. Many researchers now believe that Parkinson's disease results from a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Scientists have identified several genetic mutations associated with Parkinson's including mutations in the alpha-synuclein gene. They think that many more genes may be linked to the disorder. Studying the genes responsible for inherited cases of Parkinson's can help researchers understand both inherited and sporadic cases. The same genes and proteins that are altered in inherited cases may also be altered in sporadic cases by environmental toxins or other factors. Researchers also hope that discovering genes will help identify new ways of treating Parkinson's. Environmental Toxins Although researchers increasingly recognize the importance of genetics in Parkinson's disease, most believe environmental exposures increase a person's risk of developing the disease. Even in inherited cases, exposure to toxins or other environmental factors may influence when symptoms of the disease appear or how the disease progresses. There are a number of toxins that can cause parkinsonian symptoms in humans. Researchers are pursuing the question of whether pesticides and other environmental factors not yet identified also may cause Parkinson's disease. Viruses are another possible environmental trigger for Parkinson's. Mitochondria and Free Radicals Research suggests that mitochondria may play a role in the development of Parkinson's disease. Mitochondria are the energy-producing components of the cell and are major sources of free radicals. Free radicals are molecules that damage membranes, proteins, DNA, and other parts of the cell. This damage is called oxidative stress. Changes to brain cells caused by oxidative stress, including free radical damage to DNA, proteins, and fats, have been found in people with Parkinson's. Clinical studies now underway test whether agents thought to improve energy metabolism and decrease oxidative stress slow the progression of Parkinson's disease. Recent evidence suggests that mutations in genes linked to Parkinsons disease result in mitochondrial dysfunction. Buildup of Harmful Proteins Other research suggests that the cell's protein disposal system may fail in people with Parkinson's, causing proteins like alpha-synuclein to build up to harmful levels and trigger premature cell death. Additional studies have found that clumps of protein that develop inside brain cells of people with Parkinson's may contribute to the death of nerve cells, or neurons. However, the exact role of the protein deposits remains unknown. These studies also found that inflammation, because of protein accumulation, toxins or other factors, may play a role in the disease. However, the exact role of the protein deposits remains unknown. Researchers are exploring the possibility of vaccine development to decrease or prevent the accumulation of alpha-synuclein. While mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, inflammation, and many other cellular processes may contribute to Parkinson's disease, scientists still do not know what causes cells that produce dopamine to die. Genes Linked to Parkinsons Researchers have discovered several genes that are linked to Parkinson's disease. The first to be identified was alpha-synuclein or SNCA . Studies have found that Lewy bodies from people with the sporadic form of Parkinson's contain clumps of alpha-synuclein protein. This discovery revealed a possible link between hereditary and sporadic forms of the disease. Other genes linked to Parkinson's include PARK2, PARK7, PINK1, and LRRK2. PARK2, PARK7, and PINK1 cause rare, early-onset forms of the disease. Mutations in the LRRK2 gene are common in specific populations, including in people with Parkinson's in North Africa. Researchers are continuing to study the normal functions and interactions of these genes in order to find clues about how Parkinson's develops. They also have identified a number of other genes and chromosome regions that may play a role in Parkinson's, but the nature of these links is not yet clear. Whole genome wide association studies, or GWAS, of thousands of people with Parkinson's disease are now underway to find gene variants that allow for an increased risk of developing Parkinson's but are not necessarily causes of this disorder by themselves. A recent international study found that two genes containing mutations known to cause rare hereditary forms of Parkinsons disease are also associated with the more common sporadic form of the disease. This finding came from a GWAS which looked at DNA samples of European people who had Parkinsons disease and from those who did not have the disorder.

Question: What causes Parkinson's Disease ?
Answer: Parkinson's disease occurs when nerve cells, or neurons, in an area of the brain that controls movement die or become impaired. Normally, these neurons produce an important brain chemical known as dopamine, but once the neurons become impaired, they produce less dopamine and eventually die. It is this shortage of dopamine that causes the movement problems of people with Parkinson's.

Question: What causes Problems with Smell ?
Answer: Problems with smell happen for many reasons, some clearer than others. Loss of smell may be permanent or temporary, depending on the cause. Effects of Aging As with vision and hearing, people gradually lose their ability to smell as they get older. Smell that declines with age is called presbyosmia and is not preventable. Age is only one of the many reasons that problems with smell can occur. Most people who develop a problem with smell have recently had an illness or injury. Common Causes The common causes of smell disorders are -  sinus and upper respiratory infections   - aging   - smoking  - nasal polyps   - head injury   - allergies  - hormonal disturbances  - dental problems  - exposure to certain chemicals   - numerous medications   - radiation for treatment of head and neck cancers  - diseases of the nervous system. sinus and upper respiratory infections aging smoking nasal polyps head injury allergies hormonal disturbances dental problems exposure to certain chemicals numerous medications radiation for treatment of head and neck cancers diseases of the nervous system. Sinus and Upper Respiratory Infections. The most common causes of smell problems are the common cold and chronic nasal or sinus infection. Respiratory infections such as the flu can lead to smell disorders. Swollen sinuses and nasal passages often result in problems with smell because the odors in the air do not have good access to the olfactory sensory cells. These conditions may cause total or partial loss of smell. The problem usually diminishes or goes away when the underlying medical condition clears up. Aging. Problems with smell become more common as people get older. A person's sense of smell generally declines when he or she is over 60. Smoking. Tobacco smoking is the most concentrated form of pollution that most people are exposed to. It impairs the ability to identify and enjoy odors. Nasal Polyps. Loss of smell can be caused by nasal polyps, which are small, non-cancerous growths in the nose or sinuses that can block the ability of odors to reach olfactory sensory cells high up in the nose. In rare cases, benign non-malignant tumors grow on the olfactory nerves leading to the brain, causing a loss of smell. Previous surgery or trauma to the head can impair your sense of smell because the olfactory nerves may be cut, blocked, or physically damaged. Automobile accidents are among the most frequent causes of trauma to the face and head. Allergies. If your smell disorder is caused by allergies and seasonal nasal congestion, you should avoid allergens, such as ragweed, grasses, and pet dander. Exposure to Certain Chemicals. Sometimes exposure to certain chemicals, such as insecticides and solvents, can permanently damage the sense of smell. Medications.  If you are taking certain medicines, you may notice a change in your ability to smell. Certain medications, including some common antibiotics and antihistamines, can cause problems with smell. The sense of smell usually returns to normal when you stop taking the medicine. Radiation Treatment.  People with head and neck cancers who receive radiation treatment to the nose and mouth regions commonly experience problems with their sense of smell and taste as an unfortunate side effect. Older people who have lost their larynx or voice box commonly complain of poor ability to smell and taste. Diseases of the Nervous System. Sometimes a problem with smell can be a sign of a more serious health problem. This might include diseases of the nervous system, such as Parkinson's disease or Alzheimer's disease. Loss of smell may be the first sign that something is wrong. Check with your doctor if you've been experiencing a problem with your sense of smell for a while. You may be able to prevent or get early treatment for a more serious health problem.

Question: What causes Problems with Smell ?
Answer: Most people who have a problem with smell have recently had an illness or injury. The most common causes are upper respiratory infections, such as the common cold, and chronic sinus or nasal disease. Other common causes are -  aging   - smoking  - nasal polyps   - head injury   - allergens such as ragweed, grasses, and pet dander  - hormonal disturbances  - dental problems  - exposure to certain chemicals such as insecticides or solvents   - medications such as antibiotics or antihistamines   - radiation for treatment of head and neck cancers  - diseases of the nervous system such as Parkinsons disease or Alzheimers disease.  aging smoking nasal polyps head injury allergens such as ragweed, grasses, and pet dander hormonal disturbances dental problems exposure to certain chemicals such as insecticides or solvents medications such as antibiotics or antihistamines radiation for treatment of head and neck cancers diseases of the nervous system such as Parkinsons disease or Alzheimers disease.

Question: What causes Problems with Smell ?
Answer: In rare cases, certain medicines such as antibiotics or antihistamines may cause a change in your ability to smell. If you are taking these medications and notice a change in your sense of smell, talk to your doctor. You may be able to adjust or change your medicine to one that will not cause a problem with smell.

Question: What causes Skin Cancer ?
Answer: Scientists have been able to identify the causes and risk factors for skin cancer. A risk factor is anything that increases your chances of getting a disease. DNA Damage One of the main reasons that skin cancer develops is because DNA is damaged. DNA is the master molecule that controls and directs every cell in the body. Damage to DNA is one of the ways that cells lose control of growth and become cancerous. DNA mutations can also be inherited. Exposure to Ultraviolet Radiation Excess exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light can damage the DNA in skin cells and increase a person's risk for both melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancer. UV light is invisible radiation from the sun that can damage DNA. Skin cells are especially susceptible to DNA damage since they are frequently exposed to UV light. There are three types of UV radiation: A, B, and C. All three are dangerous and able to penetrate skin cells. UVA is the most common on earth, and is harmful to the skin. UVB is less common because some of it is absorbed by the ozone layer. It is less harmful than UVA, but can still cause damage. UVC is the least dangerous because although it can cause the most damage to the skin, almost all of the UVC rays are absorbed by the ozone layer. Sources of Ultraviolet Radiation UV radiation comes from the sun, sunlamps, tanning beds, or tanning booths. UV radiation is present even in cold weather or on a cloudy day. A person's risk of skin cancer is related to lifetime exposure to UV radiation. Most skin cancer appears after age 50, but the sun damages the skin from an early age. The body has systems to repair DNA and control some mutations, but not all of them. The risk of cancer increases as we age because sometimes cancer is caused by many mutations accumulating over time. Role of the Immune System The body's immune system is also responsible for recognizing and killing abnormal cells before they become cancerous. As we get older, our immune systems are less able to fight infection and control cell growth. People whose immune system is weakened by certain other cancers, medications, or by HIV are at an increased risk of developing skin cancer. Basal Cell and Squamous Cell Carcinoma Besides risk factors that increase a person's chance of getting any type of skin cancer, there are risk factors that are specific to basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma, the non-melanoma skin cancers. These risk factors include - scars or burns on the skin   - chronic skin inflammation or skin ulcers   - infection with certain human papilloma viruses   - exposure to arsenic at work   - radiation therapy  - diseases that make the skin sensitive to the sun, such as xeroderma pigmentosum, albinism, and basal cell nevus syndrome   - medical conditions or drugs that suppress the immune system   - personal history of one or more skin cancers   - family history of skin cancer   - certain diseases of the skin, including actinic keratosis and Bowen's disease.  scars or burns on the skin chronic skin inflammation or skin ulcers infection with certain human papilloma viruses exposure to arsenic at work radiation therapy diseases that make the skin sensitive to the sun, such as xeroderma pigmentosum, albinism, and basal cell nevus syndrome medical conditions or drugs that suppress the immune system personal history of one or more skin cancers family history of skin cancer certain diseases of the skin, including actinic keratosis and Bowen's disease. Someone who has one or more of these risk factors has a greater chance of getting skin cancer than someone who does not have these risk factors. However, having these risk factors does not guarantee a person will get skin cancer. Many genetic and environmental factors play a role in causing cancer. Melanoma Melanoma is less common than non-melanoma skin cancers like basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma, but it is more serious. The factors that increase a person's chance of getting melanoma are - severe, blistering sunburns earlier in life   - unusual moles (normally benign clusters of melanocytes)   - large quantity of ordinary moles (more than 50)  - white or light-colored (fair) skin, especially with freckles.   - blond or red hair   - blue or green eyes  - being older than 20 years of age.  severe, blistering sunburns earlier in life unusual moles (normally benign clusters of melanocytes) large quantity of ordinary moles (more than 50) white or light-colored (fair) skin, especially with freckles. blond or red hair blue or green eyes being older than 20 years of age. Someone who has one or more of these risk factors has a greater chance of getting melanoma than someone who does not have these risk factors. However, having these risk factors does not guarantee a person will get cancer. Many genetic and environmental factors play a role in causing cancer. Reducing Your Risk While exposure to UV radiation is a major risk factor for cancer, skin cancer can occur anywhere on the skin, not just in sun-exposed areas. The best ways to reduce your risk of skin cancer are to - avoid outdoor activities during midday, when the sun's rays are strongest  -  wear protective clothing such as a wide-brimmed hat, long-sleeved shirt, and pants.  avoid outdoor activities during midday, when the sun's rays are strongest wear protective clothing such as a wide-brimmed hat, long-sleeved shirt, and pants. Darker-colored clothing is more protective against the sun. For example, a white t-shirt, particularly if it gets wet, provides little resistance to UV rays. In addition, wearing sunglasses that wrap around the face or have large frames is a good way to shield the delicate skin around the eyes. Wear Sunscreen and Lipscreen When exposed to sunlight, you should always wear sunscreen and lipscreen. If possible, choose sunscreen and lipscreen labeled "broad-spectrum" (to protect against UVA and UVB rays). Your sunscreen should have an SPF, or sun protection rating, of at least 15. The SPF of a sunscreen is a measure of the time it takes to produce a sunburn in a person wearing sunscreen compared to the time it takes to produce a sunburn in a person not wearing sunscreen. This varies from person to person, so be sure to reapply sunscreen every 2-3 hours.

Question: What causes Gum (Periodontal) Disease ?
Answer: Gum disease is caused by dental plaque -- a sticky film of bacteria that builds up on teeth. Regular brushing and flossing help get rid of plaque. But plaque that is not removed can harden and form tartar that brushing doesn't clean. Only a professional cleaning by a dentist or dental hygienist can remove tartar.

Question: What causes Gum (Periodontal) Disease ?
Answer: In some studies, researchers have observed that people with periodontal disease (when compared to people without periodontal disease) were more likely to develop heart disease or have difficulty controlling their blood sugar. But so far, it has not been determined whether periodontal disease is the cause of these conditions. There may be other reasons people with periodontal disease sometimes develop additional health problems. For example, something else may be causing both the gum disease and the other condition, or it could be a coincidence that gum disease and other health problems are present together. More research is needed to clarify whether gum disease actually causes health problems beyond the mouth, and whether treating gum disease can keep other health conditions from developing. In the meantime, it's a fact that controlling periodontal disease can save your teeth -- a very good reason to take care of your teeth and gums.

Question: What causes Gum (Periodontal) Disease ?
Answer: If your hands have become stiff because of arthritis or if you have a physical disability, you may find it difficult to use your toothbrush or dental floss. The following tips might make it easier for you to clean your teeth and gums. Make the toothbrush easier to hold. The same kind of Velcro strap used to hold food utensils is helpful for some people. Make the toothbrush handle bigger. You can cut a small slit in the side of a tennis ball and slide it onto the handle of the toothbrush. You can also buy a toothbrush with a large handle, or you can slide a bicycle grip onto the handle. Attaching foam tubing, available from home health care catalogs, is also helpful. Try other toothbrush options. A power toothbrush might make brushing easier. Some people may find that it takes time to get used to a power toothbrush. A floss holder can make it easier to hold the dental floss. Also, talk with your dentist about whether an oral irrigation system, special small brushes, or other instruments that clean between teeth are right for you. Be sure to check with your dentist, though, before using any of these methods since they may injure the gums if used improperly.

Question: What causes Balance Problems ?
Answer: Some balance disorders are caused by problems in the inner ear. The part of the inner ear that is responsible for balance is the vestibular system, often refered to as the labyrinth. When the labyrinth becomes infected or swollen -- a condition called labyrinthitis -- it is typically accompanied by vertigo and imbalance. Upper respiratory infections, other viral infections, and, less commonly, bacterial infections, can lead to labyrinthitis. Other balance disorders may involve another part of the body, such as the brain or the heart. For example, diseases of the circulatory system, such as stroke, can cause dizziness and other balance problems. Smoking and diabetes can increase the risk of stroke. Low blood pressure also can cause dizziness. Aging, infections, head injury, and many medicines may also result in a balance problem.

Question: What causes Balance Problems ?
Answer: Yes. Many prescription medications, such as those used to lower blood pressure, can make a person feel dizzy. Other medicines might damage the inner ear. These medicines, called ototoxic medicines, can make you feel off balance. Sometimes the damage lasts only as long as you take the drug. Other times it is permanent. Groups of drugs that are more likely to be ototoxic include - antidepressants  - anti-seizure drugs (anticonvulsants)  - hypertensive (high blood pressure) drugs  - sedatives  - tranquilizers  - anxiolytics (anti-anxiety drugs)   - aminoglycosides (a type of antibiotic)   - diuretics  - vasodilators  - certain analgesics (painkillers)  - certain chemotherapeutics (anti-cancer drugs).  antidepressants anti-seizure drugs (anticonvulsants) hypertensive (high blood pressure) drugs sedatives tranquilizers anxiolytics (anti-anxiety drugs) aminoglycosides (a type of antibiotic) diuretics vasodilators certain analgesics (painkillers) certain chemotherapeutics (anti-cancer drugs).

Question: What causes Restless Legs Syndrome ?
Answer: Faulty Use of Iron or Lack of Iron
                
Research suggests that the main cause of restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a faulty use of iron or a lack of iron in the brain. The brain uses iron to make the chemical dopamine (DO-pah-meen) and to control other brain activities. Dopamine works in the parts of the brain that control movement.
                
Many conditions can affect how much iron is in the brain or how it's used. These conditions include kidney failure, Parkinson's disease, diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, pregnancy, and iron deficiency. All of these conditions increase your risk of RLS.
                
People whose family members have RLS also are more likely to develop the disorder. This suggests that genetics may contribute to the faulty use of iron or lack of iron in the brain that triggers RLS.
                
Nerve Damage
                
Nerve damage in the legs or feet and sometimes in the arms or hands may cause or worsen RLS. Several conditions can cause this type of nerve damage, including diabetes.
                
Medicines and Substances
                
Certain medicines may trigger RLS. These include some:
                
Antinausea medicines (used to treat upset stomach)
                
Antidepressants (used to treat depression)
                
Antipsychotics (used to treat certain mental health disorders)
                
Cold and allergy medicines that contain antihistamines
                
Calcium channel blockers (used to treat heart problems and high blood pressure)
                
RLS symptoms usually get better or may even go away if the medicine is stopped.
                
Certain substances, such as alcohol and tobacco, also can trigger or worsen RLS symptoms. Symptoms may get better or go away if the substances are stopped.

Question: What causes Respiratory Distress Syndrome ?
Answer: The main cause of respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) is a lack of surfactant in the lungs. Surfactant is a liquid that coats the inside of the lungs.
                
A fetus's lungs start making surfactant during the third trimester of pregnancy (weeks 26 through labor and delivery). The substance coats the insides of the air sacs in the lungs. This helps keep the lungs open so breathing can occur after birth.
                
Without enough surfactant, the lungs will likely collapse when the infant exhales (breathes out). The infant then has to work harder to breathe. He or she might not be able to get enough oxygen to support the body's organs.
                
Some full-term infants develop RDS because they have faulty genes that affect how their bodies make surfactant.

Question: What causes Tetralogy of Fallot ?
Answer: Doctors often don't know what causes tetralogy of Fallot and other congenital heart defects.
                
Some conditions or factors that occur during pregnancy may raise your risk of having a child who has tetralogy of Fallot. These conditions and factors include:
                
German measles (rubella) and some other viral illnesses
                
Poor nutrition
                
Alcohol use
                
Age (being older than 40)
                
Diabetes
                
Heredity may play a role in causing tetralogy of Fallot. An adult who has tetralogy of Fallot may be more likely than other people to have a baby with the condition.
                
Children who have certain genetic disorders, such as Down syndrome and DiGeorge syndrome, often have congenital heart defects, including tetralogy of Fallot.
                
Researchers continue to search for the causes of tetralogy of Fallot and other congenital heart defects.

Question: What causes Sudden Cardiac Arrest ?
Answer: Ventricular fibrillation (v-fib) causes most sudden cardiac arrests (SCAs). V-fib is a type of arrhythmia.
                
During v-fib, the ventricles (the heart's lower chambers) don't beat normally. Instead, they quiver very rapidly and irregularly. When this happens, the heart pumps little or no blood to the body. V-fib is fatal if not treated within a few minutes.
                
Other problems with the heart's electrical system also can cause SCA. For example, SCA can occur if the rate of the heart's electrical signals becomes very slow and stops. SCA also can occur if the heart muscle doesn't respond to the heart's electrical signals.
                
Certain diseases and conditions can cause the electrical problems that lead to SCA. Examples include coronary heart disease (CHD), also called coronary artery disease; severe physical stress; certain inherited disorders; and structural changes in the heart.
                
Several research studies are under way to try to find the exact causes of SCA and how to prevent them.
                
Coronary Heart Disease
                
CHD is a disease in which a waxy substance called plaque (plak) builds up in the coronary arteries. These arteries supply oxygen-rich blood to your heart muscle.
                
Plaque narrows the arteries and reduces blood flow to your heart muscle. Eventually, an area of plaque can rupture (break open). This may cause a blood clot to form on the plaque's surface.
                
A blood clot can partly or fully block the flow of oxygen-rich blood to the portion of heart muscle fed by the artery. This causes a heart attack.
                
During a heart attack, some heart muscle cells die and are replaced with scar tissue. The scar tissue damages the heart's electrical system. As a result, electrical signals may spread abnormally throughout the heart. These changes to the heart increase the risk of dangerous arrhythmias and SCA.
                
CHD seems to cause most cases of SCA in adults. Many of these adults, however, have no signs or symptoms of CHD before having SCA.
                
Physical Stress
                
Certain types of physical stress can cause your heart's electrical system to fail. Examples include:
                
Intense physical activity. The hormone adrenaline is released during intense physical activity. This hormone can trigger SCA in people who have heart problems.
                
Very low blood levels of potassium or magnesium. These minerals play an important role in your heart's electrical signaling.
                
Major blood loss.
                
Severe lack of oxygen.
                
Inherited Disorders
                
A tendency to have arrhythmias runs in some families. This tendency is inherited, which means it's passed from parents to children through the genes. Members of these families may be at higher risk for SCA.
                
An example of an inherited disorder that makes you more likely to have arrhythmias is long QT syndrome (LQTS). LQTS is a disorder of the heart's electrical activity. Problems with tiny pores on the surface of heart muscle cells cause the disorder. LQTS can cause sudden, uncontrollable, dangerous heart rhythms.
                
People who inherit structural heart problems also may be at higher risk for SCA. These types of problems often are the cause of SCA in children.
                
Structural Changes in the Heart
                
Changes in the heart's normal size or structure may affect its electrical system. Examples of such changes include an enlarged heart due to high blood pressure or advanced heart disease. Heart infections also may cause structural changes in the heart.

Question: What causes Holes in the Heart ?
Answer: Mothers of children who are born with atrial septal defects (ASDs), ventricular septal defects (VSDs), or other heart defects may think they did something wrong during their pregnancies. However, most of the time, doctors don't know why congenital heart defects occur.
                
Heredity may play a role in some heart defects. For example, a parent who has a congenital heart defect is slightly more likely than other people to have a child who has the problem. Very rarely, more than one child in a family is born with a heart defect.
                
Children who have genetic disorders, such as Down syndrome, often have congenital heart defects. Half of all babies who have Down syndrome have congenital heart defects.
                
Smoking during pregnancy also has been linked to several congenital heart defects, including septal defects.
                
Scientists continue to search for the causes of congenital heart defects.

Question: What causes Congenital Heart Defects ?
Answer: If your child has a congenital heart defect, you may think you did something wrong during your pregnancy to cause the problem. However, doctors often don't know why congenital heart defects occur.
                
Heredity may play a role in some heart defects. For example, a parent who has a congenital heart defect may be more likely than other people to have a child with the defect. Rarely, more than one child in a family is born with a heart defect.
                
Children who have genetic disorders, such as Down syndrome, often have congenital heart defects. In fact, half of all babies who have Down syndrome have congenital heart defects.
                
Smoking during pregnancy also has been linked to several congenital heart defects, including septal defects.
                
Researchers continue to search for the causes of congenital heart defects.

Question: What causes Bronchitis ?
Answer: Acute Bronchitis
                
Infections or lung irritants cause acute bronchitis. The same viruses that cause colds and the flu are the most common cause of acute bronchitis. Sometimes bacteria can cause the condition.
                
Certain substances can irritate your lungs and airways and raise your risk for acute bronchitis. For example, inhaling or being exposed to tobacco smoke, dust, fumes, vapors, or air pollution raises your risk for the condition. These lung irritants also can make symptoms worse.
                
Being exposed to a high level of dust or fumes, such as from an explosion or a big fire, also may lead to acute bronchitis.
                
Chronic Bronchitis
                
Repeatedly breathing in fumes that irritate and damage lung and airway tissues causes chronic bronchitis. Smoking is the major cause of the condition.
                
Breathing in air pollution and dust or fumes from the environment or workplace also can lead to chronic bronchitis.
                
People who have chronic bronchitis go through periods when symptoms become much worse than usual. During these times, they also may have acute viral or bacterial bronchitis.

Question: What causes Overweight and Obesity ?
Answer: Lack of Energy Balance
                
A lack of energy balance most often causes overweight and obesity. Energy balance means that your energy IN equals your energy OUT.
                
Energy IN is the amount of energy or calories you get from food and drinks. Energy OUT is the amount of energy your body uses for things like breathing, digesting, and being physically active.
                
To maintain a healthy weight, your energy IN and OUT don't have to balance exactly every day. It's the balance over time that helps you maintain a healthy weight.
                
The same amount of energy IN and energy OUT over time = weight stays the same
                
More energy IN than energy OUT over time = weight gain
                
More energy OUT than energy IN over time = weight loss
                
Overweight and obesity happen over time when you take in more calories than you use.
                
Other Causes
                
An Inactive Lifestyle
                
Many Americans aren't very physically active. One reason for this is that many people spend hours in front of TVs and computers doing work, schoolwork, and leisure activities. In fact, more than 2 hours a day of regular TV viewing time has been linked to overweight and obesity.
                
Other reasons for not being active include: relying on cars instead of walking, fewer physical demands at work or at home because of modern technology and conveniences, and lack of physical education classes in schools.
                
People who are inactive are more likely to gain weight because they don't burn the calories that they take in from food and drinks. An inactive lifestyle also raises your risk for coronary heart disease, high blood pressure, diabetes, colon cancer, and other health problems.
                
Environment
                
Our environment doesn't support healthy lifestyle habits; in fact, it encourages obesity. Some reasons include:
                
Lack of neighborhood sidewalks and safe places for recreation. Not having area parks, trails, sidewalks, and affordable gyms makes it hard for people to be physically active.
                
Work schedules. People often say that they don't have time to be physically active because of long work hours and time spent commuting.
                
Oversized food portions. Americans are exposed to huge food portions in restaurants, fast food places, gas stations, movie theaters, supermarkets, and even at home. Some of these meals and snacks can feed two or more people. Eating large portions means too much energy IN. Over time, this will cause weight gain if it isn't balanced with physical activity.
                
Lack of access to healthy foods. Some people don't live in neighborhoods that have supermarkets that sell healthy foods, such as fresh fruits and vegetables. Or, for some people, these healthy foods are too costly.
                
Food advertising. Americans are surrounded by ads from food companies. Often children are the targets of advertising for high-calorie, high-fat snacks and sugary drinks. The goal of these ads is to sway people to buy these high-calorie foods, and often they do.
                
Genes and Family History
                
Studies of identical twins who have been raised apart show that genes have a strong influence on a person's weight. Overweight and obesity tend to run in families. Your chances of being overweight are greater if one or both of your parents are overweight or obese.
                
Your genes also may affect the amount of fat you store in your body and where on your body you carry the extra fat. Because families also share food and physical activity habits, a link exists between genes and the environment.
                
Children adopt the habits of their parents. A child who has overweight parents who eat high-calorie foods and are inactive will likely become overweight too. However, if the family adopts healthy food and physical activity habits, the child's chance of being overweight or obese is reduced.
                
Health Conditions
                
Some hormone problems may cause overweight and obesity, such as underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism), Cushing's syndrome, and polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS).
                
Underactive thyroid is a condition in which the thyroid gland doesn't make enough thyroid hormone. Lack of thyroid hormone will slow down your metabolism and cause weight gain. You'll also feel tired and weak.
                
Cushing's syndrome is a condition in which the body's adrenal glands make too much of the hormone cortisol. Cushing's syndrome also can develop if a person takes high doses of certain medicines, such as prednisone, for long periods.
                
People who have Cushing's syndrome gain weight, have upper-body obesity, a rounded face, fat around the neck, and thin arms and legs.
                
PCOS is a condition that affects about 510 percent of women of childbearing age. Women who have PCOS often are obese, have excess hair growth, and have reproductive problems and other health issues. These problems are caused by high levels of hormones called androgens.
                
Medicines
                
Certain medicines may cause you to gain weight. These medicines include some corticosteroids, antidepressants, and seizure medicines.
                
These medicines can slow the rate at which your body burns calories, increase your appetite, or cause your body to hold on to extra water. All of these factors can lead to weight gain.
                
Emotional Factors
                
Some people eat more than usual when they're bored, angry, or stressed. Over time, overeating will lead to weight gain and may cause overweight or obesity.
                
Smoking
                
Some people gain weight when they stop smoking. One reason is that food often tastes and smells better after quitting smoking.
                
Another reason is because nicotine raises the rate at which your body burns calories, so you burn fewer calories when you stop smoking. However, smoking is a serious health risk, and quitting is more important than possible weight gain.
                
Age
                
As you get older, you tend to lose muscle, especially if you're less active. Muscle loss can slow down the rate at which your body burns calories. If you don't reduce your calorie intake as you get older, you may gain weight.
                
Midlife weight gain in women is mainly due to aging and lifestyle, but menopause also plays a role. Many women gain about 5 pounds during menopause and have more fat around the waist than they did before.
                
Pregnancy
                
During pregnancy, women gain weight to support their babies growth and development. After giving birth, some women find it hard to lose the weight. This may lead to overweight or obesity, especially after a few pregnancies.
                
Lack of Sleep
                
Research shows that lack of sleep increases the risk of obesity. For example, one study of teenagers showed that with each hour of sleep lost, the odds of becoming obese went up. Lack of sleep increases the risk of obesity in other age groups as well.
                
People who sleep fewer hours also seem to prefer eating foods that are higher in calories and carbohydrates, which can lead to overeating, weight gain, and obesity.
                
Sleep helps maintain a healthy balance of the hormones that make you feel hungry (ghrelin) or full (leptin). When you don't get enough sleep, your level of ghrelin goes up and your level of leptin goes down. This makes you feel hungrier than when you're well-rested.
                
Sleep also affects how your body reacts to insulin, the hormone that controls your blood glucose (sugar) level. Lack of sleep results in a higher than normal blood sugar level, which may increase your risk for diabetes.
                
For more information, go to the Health Topics Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency article.

Question: What causes Cardiogenic Shock ?
Answer: Immediate Causes
                
Cardiogenic shock occurs if the heart suddenly can't pump enough oxygen-rich blood to the body. The most common cause of cardiogenic shock is damage to the heart muscle from a severe heart attack.
                
This damage prevents the hearts main pumping chamber, the left ventricle (VEN-trih-kul), from working well. As a result, the heart can't pump enough oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body.
                
In about 3 percent of cardiogenic shock cases, the hearts lower right chamber, the right ventricle, doesnt work well. This means the heart can't properly pump blood to the lungs, where it picks up oxygen to bring back to the heart and the rest of the body.
                
Without enough oxygen-rich blood reaching the bodys major organs, many problems can occur. For example:
                
Cardiogenic shock can cause death if the flow of oxygen-rich blood to the organs isn't restored quickly. This is why emergency medical treatment is required.
                
If organs don't get enough oxygen-rich blood, they won't work well. Cells in the organs die, and the organs may never work well again.
                
As some organs stop working, they may cause problems with other bodily functions. This, in turn, can worsen shock. For example:   - If the kidneys aren't working well, the levels of important chemicals in the body change. This may cause the heart and other muscles to become even weaker, limiting blood flow even more.   - If the liver isn't working well, the body stops making proteins that help the blood clot. This can lead to more bleeding if the shock is due to blood loss.
                
If the kidneys aren't working well, the levels of important chemicals in the body change. This may cause the heart and other muscles to become even weaker, limiting blood flow even more.
                
If the liver isn't working well, the body stops making proteins that help the blood clot. This can lead to more bleeding if the shock is due to blood loss.
                
How well the brain, kidneys, and other organs recover will depend on how long a person is in shock. The less time a person is in shock, the less damage will occur to the organs. This is another reason why emergency treatment is so important.
                
Underlying Causes
                
The underlying causes of cardiogenic shock are conditions that weaken the heart and prevent it from pumping enough oxygen-rich blood to the body.
                
Heart Attack
                
Most heart attacks occur as a result of coronary heart disease (CHD). CHD is a condition in which a waxy substance called plaque (plak) narrows or blocks the coronary (heart) arteries.
                
Plaque reduces blood flow to your heart muscle. It also makes it more likely that blood clots will form in your arteries. Blood clots can partially or completely block blood flow.
                
Conditions Caused by Heart Attack
                
Heart attacks can cause some serious heart conditions that can lead to cardiogenic shock. One example is ventricular septal rupture. This condition occurs if the wall that separates the ventricles (the hearts two lower chambers) breaks down.
                
The breakdown happens because cells in the wall have died due to a heart attack. Without the wall to separate them, the ventricles cant pump properly.
                
Heart attacks also can cause papillary muscle infarction or rupture. This condition occurs if the muscles that help anchor the heart valves stop working or break because a heart attack cuts off their blood supply. If this happens, blood doesn't flow correctly between the hearts chambers. This prevents the heart from pumping properly.
                
Other Heart Conditions
                
Serious heart conditions that may occur with or without a heart attack can cause cardiogenic shock. Examples include:
                
Myocarditis (MI-o-kar-DI-tis). This is inflammation of the heart muscle.
                
Endocarditis (EN-do-kar-DI-tis). This is an infection of the inner lining of the heart chambers and valves.
                
Life-threatening arrhythmias (ah-RITH-me-ahs). These are problems with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat.
                
Pericardial tamponade (per-ih-KAR-de-al tam-po-NADE). This is too much fluid or blood around the heart. The fluid squeezes the heart muscle so it can't pump properly.
                
Pulmonary Embolism
                
Pulmonary embolism (PE) is a sudden blockage in a lung artery. This condition usually is caused by a blood clot that travels to the lung from a vein in the leg. PE can damage your heart and other organs in your body.

Question: What causes Heart Disease in Women ?
Answer: Research suggests thatcoronary heart disease(CHD) begins with damage to the lining and inner layers of the coronary (heart) arteries. Several factors contribute to this damage. They include:
                
Smoking, including secondhand smoke
                
High amounts of certain fats andcholesterol in the blood
                
High blood pressure
                
High amounts of sugar in the blood due to insulin resistance or diabetes
                
Blood vessel inflammation
                
Plaque may begin to build up where the arteries are damaged. The buildup of plaque in the coronary arteries may start in childhood.
                
Over time, plaque can harden or rupture (break open). Hardened plaque narrows the coronary arteries and reduces the flow of oxygen-rich blood to the heart. This can cause chest pain or discomfort calledangina.
                
If the plaque ruptures, blood cell fragments called platelets (PLATE-lets) stick to the site of the injury. They may clump together to form blood clots.
                
Blood clots can further narrow the coronary arteries and worsenangina. If a clot becomes large enough, it can mostly or completely block a coronary artery and cause a heart attack.
                
In addition to the factors above, low estrogen levels before or after menopause may play a role in causingcoronary microvascular disease(MVD). Coronary MVD is heart disease that affects the heart's tiny arteries.
                
The cause of broken heart syndrome isn't yet known. However, a sudden release of stress hormones may play a role in causing the disorder. Most cases of broken heart syndrome occur in women who have gone through menopause.

Question: What causes Anemia ?
Answer: The three main causes of anemia are:
                
Blood loss
                
Lack of red blood cell production
                
High rates of red blood cell destruction
                
For some people, the condition is caused by more than one of these factors.
                
Blood Loss
                
Blood loss is the most common cause of anemia, especially iron-deficiency anemia. Blood loss can be short term or persist over time.
                
Heavy menstrual periods or bleeding in the digestive or urinary tract can cause blood loss. Surgery, trauma, or cancer also can cause blood loss.
                
If a lot of blood is lost, the body may lose enough red blood cells to cause anemia.
                
Lack of Red Blood Cell Production
                
Both acquired and inherited conditions and factors can prevent your body from making enough red blood cells. "Acquired" means you aren't born with the condition, but you develop it. "Inherited" means your parents passed the gene for the condition on to you.
                
Acquired conditions and factors that can lead to anemia include poor diet, abnormal hormone levels, some chronic (ongoing) diseases, and pregnancy.
                
Aplastic anemia also can prevent your body from making enough red blood cells. This condition can be acquired or inherited.
                
Diet
                
A diet that lacks iron, folic acid (folate), or vitamin B12 can prevent your body from making enough red blood cells. Your body also needs small amounts of vitamin C, riboflavin, and copper to make red blood cells.
                
Conditions that make it hard for your body to absorb nutrients also can prevent your body from making enough red blood cells.
                
Hormones
                
Your body needs the hormone erythropoietin (eh-rith-ro-POY-eh-tin) to make red blood cells. This hormone stimulates the bone marrow to make these cells. A low level of this hormone can lead to anemia.
                
Diseases and Disease Treatments
                
Chronic diseases, like kidney disease and cancer, can make it hard for your body to make enough red blood cells.
                
Some cancer treatments may damage the bone marrow or damage the red blood cells' ability to carry oxygen. If the bone marrow is damaged, it can't make red blood cells fast enough to replace the ones that die or are destroyed.
                
People who have HIV/AIDS may develop anemia due to infections or medicines used to treat their diseases.
                
Pregnancy
                
Anemia can occur during pregnancy due to low levels of iron and folic acid and changes in the blood.
                
During the first 6 months of pregnancy, the fluid portion of a woman's blood (the plasma) increases faster than the number of red blood cells. This dilutes the blood and can lead to anemia.
                
Aplastic Anemia
                
Some infants are born without the ability to make enough red blood cells. This condition is called aplastic anemia. Infants and children who have aplastic anemia often need blood transfusions to increase the number of red blood cells in their blood.
                
Acquired conditions or factors, such as certain medicines, toxins, and infectious diseases, also can cause aplastic anemia.
                
High Rates of Red Blood Cell Destruction
                
Both acquired and inherited conditions and factors can cause your body to destroy too many red blood cells. One example of an acquired condition is an enlarged or diseased spleen.
                
The spleen is an organ that removes wornout red blood cells from the body. If the spleen is enlarged or diseased, it may remove more red blood cells than normal, causing anemia.
                
Examples of inherited conditions that can cause your body to destroy too many red blood cells include sickle cell anemia, thalassemias, and lack of certain enzymes. These conditions create defects in the red blood cells that cause them to die faster than healthy red blood cells.
                
Hemolytic anemia is another example of a condition in which your body destroys too many red blood cells. Inherited or acquired conditions or factors can cause hemolytic anemia. Examples include immune disorders, infections, certain medicines, or reactions to blood transfusions.

Question: What causes Asbestos-Related Lung Diseases ?
Answer: Significant exposure to asbestos fibers causes asbestos-related lung diseases. "Significant" usually means you were exposed for at least several months to visible dust from the fibers.
                
Asbestos fibers are very small. When you breathe in, they can get stuck deep in your lungs. The fibers remain in your lung tissue for a long time and may cause scarring and inflammation. This can lead to pleural plaque and widespread pleural thickening, pleural effusion, asbestosis, lung cancer, or mesothelioma.
                
Generally, asbestos-related lung diseases develop 10 to 40 or more years after a person has been exposed to asbestos.
                
Being around products that contain asbestos isn't a danger, as long as the asbestos is enclosed. This prevents the fibers from getting into the air.

Question: What causes Rh Incompatibility ?
Answer: A difference in blood type between a pregnant woman and her baby causes Rh incompatibility. The condition occurs if a woman is Rh-negative and her baby is Rh-positive.
                
When you're pregnant, blood from your baby can cross into your bloodstream, especially during delivery. If you're Rh-negative and your baby is Rh-positive, your body will react to the baby's blood as a foreign substance.
                
Your body will create antibodies (proteins) against the baby's Rh-positive blood. These antibodies can cross the placenta and attack the baby's red blood cells. This can lead to hemolytic anemia in the baby.
                
Rh incompatibility usually doesn't cause problems during a first pregnancy. The baby often is born before many of the antibodies develop.
                
However, once you've formed Rh antibodies, they remain in your body. Thus, the condition is more likely to cause problems in second or later pregnancies (if the baby is Rh-positive).
                
With each pregnancy, your body continues to make Rh antibodies. As a result, each Rh-positive baby you conceive becomes more at risk for serious problems, such as severe hemolytic anemia.

Question: What causes Insomnia ?
Answer: Secondary Insomnia
                
Secondary insomnia is the symptom or side effect of another problem. This type of insomnia often is a symptom of an emotional, neurological, or other medical or sleep disorder.
                
Emotional disorders that can cause insomnia include depression, anxiety, and posttraumatic stress disorder. Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease are examples of neurological disorders that can cause insomnia.
                
Many other disorders or factors also can cause insomnia, such as:
                
Conditions that cause chronic (ongoing) pain, such as arthritis and headache disorders
                
Conditions that make it hard to breathe, such as asthma and heart failure
                
An overactive thyroid
                
Gastrointestinal disorders, such as heartburn
                
Stroke
                
Sleep disorders, such as restless legs syndrome and sleep-related breathing problems
                
Menopause and hot flashes
                
Secondary insomnia also can be a side effect of some medicines. For example, certain asthma medicines, such as theophylline, and some allergy and cold medicines can cause insomnia. Beta blockers also can cause the condition. These medicines are used to treat heart conditions.
                
Commonly used substances also can cause insomnia. Examples include caffeine and other stimulants, tobacco and other nicotine products, and alcohol and other sedatives.
                
Primary Insomnia
                
Primary insomnia isn't a symptom or side effect of another medical condition. It is its own distinct disorder, and its cause isnt well understood. Primary insomnia usually lasts for at least 1 month.
                
Many life changes can trigger primary insomnia. It may be due to major or long-lasting stress or emotional upset. Travel or other factors, such as work schedules that disrupt your sleep routine, also may trigger primary insomnia.
                
Even if these issues are resolved, the insomnia may not go away. Trouble sleeping can persist because of habits formed to deal with the lack of sleep. These habits might include taking naps, worrying about sleep, and going to bed early.
                
Researchers continue to try to find out whether some people are born with an increased risk for primary insomnia.

Question: What causes Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation ?
Answer: Some diseases and conditions can disrupt the body's normal blood clotting process and lead to disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). These diseases and conditions include:
                
Sepsis (an infection in the bloodstream)
                
Surgery and trauma
                
Cancer
                
Serious complications of pregnancy and childbirth
                
Examples of less common causes of DIC are bites from poisonous snakes (such as rattlesnakes and other vipers), frostbite, and burns.
                
The two types of DIC are acute and chronic. Acute DIC begins with clotting in the small blood vessels and quickly leads to serious bleeding. Chronic DIC causes blood clotting, but it usually doesn't lead to bleeding. Cancer is the most common cause of chronic DIC.
                
Similar Clotting Conditions
                
Two other conditions cause blood clotting in the small blood vessels. However, their causes and treatments differ from those of DIC.
                
These conditions are thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (throm-BOT-ik throm-bo-cy-toe-PEE-nick PURR-purr-ah), or TTP, and hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS). HUS is more common in children than adults. It's also more likely to cause kidney damage than TTP.

Question: What causes Coronary Heart Disease ?
Answer: Research suggests that coronary heart disease (CHD) starts when certain factors damage the inner layers of the coronary arteries. These factors include:
                
Smoking
                
High levels of certain fats and cholesterol in the blood
                
High blood pressure
                
High levels of sugar in the blood due to insulin resistance or diabetes
                
Blood vessel inflammation
                
Plaque might begin to build up where the arteries are damaged. The buildup of plaque in the coronary arteries may start in childhood.
                
Over time, plaque can harden or rupture (break open). Hardened plaque narrows the coronary arteries and reduces the flow of oxygen-rich blood to the heart. This can cause angina (chest pain or discomfort).
                
If the plaque ruptures, blood cell fragments called platelets (PLATE-lets) stick to the site of the injury. They may clump together to form blood clots.
                
Blood clots can further narrow the coronary arteries and worsen angina. If a clot becomes large enough, it can mostly or completely block a coronary artery and cause a heart attack.

Question: What causes Vasculitis ?
Answer: Vasculitis occurs if your immune system attacks your blood vessels by mistake. What causes this to happen isn't fully known.
                
A recent or chronic (ongoing) infection may prompt the attack. Your body also may attack its own blood vessels in reaction to a medicine.
                
Sometimes an autoimmune disorder triggers vasculitis. Autoimmune disorders occur if the immune system makes antibodies (proteins) that attack and damage the body's own tissues or cells. Examples of these disorders include lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, and scleroderma. You can have these disorders for years before developing vasculitis.
                
Vasculitis also may be linked to certain blood cancers, such as leukemia and lymphoma.

Question: What causes Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency ?
Answer: Alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) deficiency is an inherited disease. "Inherited" means it's passed from parents to children through genes.
                
Children who have AAT deficiency inherit two faulty AAT genes, one from each parent. These genes tell cells in the body how to make AAT proteins.
                
In AAT deficiency, the AAT proteins made in the liver aren't the right shape. Thus, they get stuck in the liver cells. The proteins can't get to the organs in the body that they protect, such as the lungs. Without the AAT proteins protecting the organs, diseases can develop.
                
The most common faulty gene that can cause AAT deficiency is called PiZ. If you inherit two PiZ genes (one from each parent), you'll have AAT deficiency.
                
If you inherit a PiZ gene from one parent and a normal AAT gene from the other parent, you won't have AAT deficiency. However, you might pass the PiZ gene to your children.
                
Even if you inherit two faulty AAT genes, you may not have any related complications. You may never even realize that you have AAT deficiency.

Question: What causes Cystic Fibrosis ?
Answer: A defect in the CFTR gene causes cystic fibrosis (CF). This gene makes a protein that controls the movement of salt and water in and out of your body's cells. In people who have CF, the gene makes a protein that doesn't work well. This causes thick, sticky mucus and very salty sweat.
                
Research suggests that the CFTR protein also affects the body in other ways. This may help explain other symptoms and complications of CF.
                
More than a thousand known defects can affect the CFTR gene. The type of defect you or your child has may affect the severity of CF. Other genes also may play a role in the severity of the disease.
                
How Is Cystic Fibrosis Inherited?
                
Every person inherits two CFTR genesone from each parent. Children who inherit a faulty CFTR gene from each parent will have CF.
                
Children who inherit one faulty CFTR gene and one normal CFTR gene are "CF carriers." CF carriers usually have no symptoms of CF and live normal lives. However, they can pass the faulty CFTR gene to their children.
                
The image below shows how two parents who are both CF carriers can pass the faulty CFTR gene to their children.
                
Example of an Inheritance Pattern for Cystic Fibrosis

Question: What causes Peripheral Artery Disease ?
Answer: The most common cause of peripheral arterydisease (P.A.D.) is atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up in your arteries. The exact cause of atherosclerosis isn't known.
                
The disease may start if certain factors damage the inner layers of the arteries. These factors include:
                
Smoking
                
High amounts of certain fats and cholesterol in the blood
                
High blood pressure
                
High amounts of sugar in the blood due to insulin resistance or diabetes
                
When damage occurs, your body starts a healing process. The healing may cause plaque to build up where the arteries are damaged.
                
Eventually, a section of plaque can rupture (break open), causing a blood clot to form at the site. The buildup of plaque or blood clots can severely narrow or block the arteries and limit the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your body.

Question: What causes Sarcoidosis ?
Answer: The cause of sarcoidosis isn't known. More than one factor may play a role in causing the disease.
                
Some researchers think that sarcoidosis develops if your immune system responds to a trigger, such as bacteria, viruses, dust, or chemicals.
                
Normally, your immune system defends your body against foreign or harmful substances. For example, it sends special cells to protect organs that are in danger.
                
These cells release chemicals that recruit other cells to isolate and destroy the harmful substance. Inflammation occurs during this process. Once the harmful substance is gone, the cells and the inflammation go away.
                
In people who have sarcoidosis, the inflammation doesn't go away. Instead, some of the immune system cells cluster to form lumps called granulomas in various organs in your body.
                
Genetics also may play a role in sarcoidosis. Researchers believe that sarcoidosis occurs if:
                
You have a certain gene or genes that raise your risk for the disease
                
And
                
You're exposed to something that triggers your immune system
                
Triggers may vary depending on your genetic makeup. Certain genes may influence which organs are affected and the severity of your symptoms.
                
Researchers continue to try to pinpoint the genes that are linked to sarcoidosis.

Question: What causes Thrombocytopenia ?
Answer: Many factors can cause thrombocytopenia (a low platelet count). The condition can be inherited or acquired. "Inherited" means your parents pass the gene for the condition to you. "Acquired" means you aren't born with the condition, but you develop it. Sometimes the cause of thrombocytopenia isn't known.
                
In general, a low platelet count occurs because:
                
The body's bone marrow doesn't make enough platelets.
                
The bone marrow makes enough platelets, but the body destroys them or uses them up.
                
The spleen holds on to too many platelets.
                
A combination of the above factors also may cause a low platelet count.
                
The Bone Marrow Doesn't Make Enough Platelets
                
Bone marrow is the sponge-like tissue inside the bones. It contains stem cells that develop into red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. When stem cells are damaged, they don't grow into healthy blood cells.
                
Many conditions and factors can damage stem cells.
                
Cancer
                
Cancer, such as leukemia (lu-KE-me-ah) or lymphoma (lim-FO-ma), can damage the bone marrow and destroy blood stem cells. Cancer treatments, such as radiation and chemotherapy, also destroy the stem cells.
                
Aplastic Anemia
                
Aplastic anemia is a rare, serious blood disorder in which the bone marrow stops making enough new blood cells. This lowers the number of platelets in your blood.
                
Toxic Chemicals
                
Exposure to toxic chemicalssuch as pesticides, arsenic, and benzenecan slow the production of platelets.
                
Medicines
                
Some medicines, such as diuretics and chloramphenicol, can slow the production of platelets. Chloramphenicol (an antibiotic) rarely is used in the United States.
                
Common over-the-counter medicines, such as aspirin or ibuprofen, also can affect platelets.
                
Alcohol
                
Alcohol also slows the production of platelets. A temporary drop in the platelet count is common among heavy drinkers, especially if they're eating foods that are low in iron, vitamin B12, or folate.
                
Viruses
                
Chickenpox, mumps, rubella, Epstein-Barr virus, or parvovirus can decrease your platelet count for a while. People who have AIDS often develop thrombocytopenia.
                
Genetic Conditions
                
Some genetic conditions can cause low numbers of platelets in the blood. Examples include Wiskott-Aldrich and May-Hegglin syndromes.
                
The Body Destroys Its Own Platelets
                
A low platelet count can occur even if the bone marrow makes enough platelets. The body may destroy its own platelets due to autoimmune diseases, certain medicines, infections, surgery, pregnancy, and some conditions that cause too much blood clotting.
                
Autoimmune Diseases
                
Autoimmune diseases occur if the body's immune system mistakenly attacks healthy cells in the body. If an autoimmune disease destroys the body's platelets, thrombocytopenia can occur.
                
One example of this type of autoimmune disease is immune thrombocytopenia (ITP). ITP is a bleeding disorder in which the blood doesn't clot as it should. An autoimmune response is thought to cause most cases of ITP.
                
Normally, your immune system helps your body fight off infections and diseases. But if you have ITP, your immune system attacks and destroys its own platelets. Why this happens isn't known. (ITP also may occur if the immune system attacks your bone marrow, which makes platelets.)
                
Other autoimmune diseases that destroy platelets include lupus and rheumatoid arthritis.
                
Medicines
                
A reaction to medicine can confuse your body and cause it to destroy its platelets. Examples of medicines that may cause this to happen include quinine; antibiotics that contain sulfa; and some medicines for seizures, such as Dilantin, vancomycin, and rifampin. (Quinine is a substance often found in tonic water and nutritional health products.)
                
Heparin is a medicine commonly used to prevent blood clots. But an immune reaction may trigger the medicine to cause blood clots and thrombocytopenia. This condition is called heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT). HIT rarely occurs outside of a hospital.
                
In HIT, the body's immune system attacks a substance formed by heparin and a protein on the surface of the platelets. This attack activates the platelets and they start to form blood clots.
                
Blood clots can form deep in the legs (deep vein thrombosis), or they can break loose and travel to the lungs (pulmonary embolism).
                
Infection
                
A low platelet count can occur after blood poisoning from a widespread bacterial infection. A virus, such as mononucleosis or cytomegalovirus, also can cause a low platelet count.
                
Surgery
                
Platelets can be destroyed when they pass through man-made heart valves, blood vessel grafts, or machines and tubing used for blood transfusions or bypass surgery.
                
Pregnancy
                
About 5 percent of pregnant women develop mild thrombocytopenia when they're close to delivery. The exact cause isn't known for sure.
                
Rare and Serious Conditions That Cause Blood Clots
                
Some rare and serious conditions can cause a low platelet count. Two examples are thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC).
                
TTP is a rare blood condition. It causes blood clots to form in the body's small blood vessels, including vessels in the brains, kidneys, and heart.
                
DIC is a rare complication of pregnancy, severe infections, or severe trauma. Tiny blood clots form suddenly throughout the body.
                
In both conditions, the blood clots use up many of the blood's platelets.
                
The Spleen Holds On to Too Many Platelets
                
Usually, one-third of the body's platelets are held in the spleen. If the spleen is enlarged, it will hold on to too many platelets. This means that not enough platelets will circulate in the blood.
                
An enlarged spleen often is due to cancer or severe liver disease, such as cirrhosis (sir-RO-sis). Cirrhosis is a disease in which the liver is scarred. This prevents it from working well.
                
An enlarged spleen also might be due to a bone marrow condition, such as myelofibrosis (MI-eh-lo-fi-BRO-sis). With this condition, the bone marrow is scarred and isn't able to make blood cells.

Question: What causes Immune Thrombocytopenia ?
Answer: In most cases, an autoimmune response is thought to cause immune thrombocytopenia (ITP).
                
Normally, your immune system helps your body fight off infections and diseases. In ITP, however, your immune system attacks and destroys your body's platelets by mistake. Why this happens isn't known.
                
In some people, ITP may be linked to viral or bacterial infections, such as HIV, hepatitis C, or H. pylori.
                
Children who have acute (short-term) ITP often have had recent viral infections. These infections may "trigger" or set off the immune reaction that leads to ITP.

Question: What causes Arrhythmia ?
Answer: An arrhythmia can occur if the electrical signals that control the heartbeat are delayed or blocked. This can happen if the special nerve cells that produce electrical signals don't work properly. It also can happen if the electrical signals don't travel normally through the heart.
                
An arrhythmia also can occur if another part of the heart starts to produce electrical signals. This adds to the signals from the special nerve cells and disrupts the normal heartbeat.
                
Smoking, heavy alcohol use, use of some drugs (such as cocaine or amphetamines), use of some prescription or over-the-counter medicines, or too much caffeine or nicotine can lead to arrhythmias in some people.
                
Strong emotional stress or anger can make the heart work harder, raise blood pressure, and release stress hormones. Sometimes these reactions can lead to arrhythmias.
                
A heart attack or other condition that damages the heart's electrical system also can cause arrhythmias. Examples of such conditions include high blood pressure, coronary heart disease, heart failure, an overactive or underactive thyroid gland (too much or too little thyroid hormone produced), and rheumatic heart disease.
                
Congenital (kon-JEN-ih-tal) heart defects can cause some arrhythmias, such as Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. The term "congenital means the defect is present at birth.
                
Sometimes the cause of arrhythmias is unknown.

Question: What causes Childhood Interstitial Lung Disease ?
Answer: Researchers don't yet know all of the causes of childhood interstitial lung disease (chILD). Many times, these diseases have no clear cause.
                
Some conditions and factors that may cause or lead to chILD include:
                
Inherited conditions, such as surfactant disorders. Surfactant is a liquid that coats the inside of the lungs. It helps with breathing and may help protect the lungs from bacterial and viral infections.
                
Birth defects that cause problems with the structure or function of the lungs.
                
Aspiration (as-pih-RA-shun). This term refers to inhaling substancessuch as food, liquid, or vomitinto the lungs. Inhaling these substances can injure the lungs. Aspiration may occur in children who have swallowing problems or gastroesophageal (GAS-tro-eh-so-fa-JE-al) reflux disease (GERD). GERD occurs if acid from the stomach backs up into the throat.
                
Immune system disorders. The immune system protects the body against bacteria, viruses, and toxins. Children who have immune system disorders aren't able to fight illness and disease as well as children who have healthy immune systems.
                
Exposure to substances in the environment that can irritate the lungs, such as molds and chemicals.
                
Some cancer treatments, such as radiation and chemotherapy.
                
Systemic or autoimmune diseases, such as collagen vascular disease or inflammatory bowel disease. Systemic diseases are diseases that involve many of the body's organs. Autoimmune diseases occur if the body's immune system mistakenly attacks the body's tissues and cells.
                
A bone marrow transplant or a lung transplant.

Question: What causes Von Willebrand Disease ?
Answer: Von Willebrand disease (VWD) is almost always inherited. "Inherited" means that the disorder is passed from parents to children though genes. 
                
You can inherit type 1 or type 2 VWD if only one of your parents passes the gene on to you. You usually inherit type 3 VWD only if both of your parents pass the gene on to you. Your symptoms may be different from your parents' symptoms.
                
Some people have the genes for the disorder but don't have symptoms. However, they still can pass the genes on to their children.
                
Some people get VWD later in life as a result of other medical conditions. This type of VWD is called acquired von Willebrand syndrome.

Question: What causes Hypotension ?
Answer: Conditions or factors that disrupt the body's ability to control blood pressure cause hypotension. The different types of hypotension have different causes.
                
Orthostatic Hypotension
                
Orthostatic hypotension has many causes. Sometimes two or more factors combine to cause this type of low blood pressure.
                
Dehydration (de-hi-DRA-shun) is the most common cause of orthostatic hypotension. Dehydration occurs if the body loses more water than it takes in.
                
You may become dehydrated if you don't drink enough fluids or if you sweat a lot during physical activity. Fever, vomiting, and severe diarrhea also can cause dehydration.
                
Orthostatic hypotension also may occur during pregnancy, but it usually goes away after birth.
                
Because an older body doesn't manage changes in blood pressure as well as a younger body, getting older also can lead to this type of hypotension.
                
Postprandial hypotension (a type of orthostatic hypotension) mostly affects older adults. Postprandial hypotension is a sudden drop in blood pressure after a meal.
                
Certain medical conditions can raise your risk of orthostatic hypotension, including:
                
Heart conditions, such as heart attack, heart valve disease, bradycardia (a very low heart rate), and heart failure. These conditions prevent the heart from pumping enough blood to the body.
                
Anemia.
                
Severe infections.
                
Endocrine conditions, such as thyroid disorders, Addison's disease, low blood sugar, and diabetes.
                
Central nervous system disorders, such as Parkinson's disease.
                
Pulmonary embolism.
                
Some medicines for high blood pressure and heart disease can raise your risk of orthostatic hypotension. These medicines include:
                
Diuretics, also called "water pills"
                
Calcium channel blockers
                
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors
                
Angiotensin II receptor blockers
                
Nitrates
                
Beta blockers
                
Medicines for conditions such as anxiety, depression, erectile dysfunction, and central nervous system disorders also can increase your risk of orthostatic hypotension.
                
Other substances, when taken with high blood pressure medicines, also can lead to orthostatic hypotension. These substances include alcohol, barbiturates, and some prescription and over-the-counter medicines.
                
Finally, other factors or conditions that can trigger orthostatic hypotension include being out in the heat or being immobile for a long time. "Immobile" means you can't move around very much.
                
Neurally Mediated Hypotension
                
Neurally mediated hypotension (NMH) occurs when the brain and heart don't communicate with each other properly.
                
For example, when you stand for a long time, blood begins to pool in your legs. This causes your blood pressure to drop. In NMH, the body mistakenly tells the brain that blood pressure is high. In response, the brain slows the heart rate. This makes blood pressure drop even more, causing dizziness and other symptoms.
                
Severe Hypotension Linked to Shock
                
Many factors and conditions can cause severe hypotension linked to shock. Some of these factors also can cause orthostatic hypotension. In shock, though, blood pressure drops very low and doesn't return to normal on its own.
                
Shock is an emergency and must be treated right away. If a person has signs or symptoms of shock, call 911.
                
Some severe infections can cause shock. This is known as septic shock. It can occur if bacteria enter the bloodstream. The bacteria release a toxin (poison) that leads to a dangerous drop in blood pressure.
                
A severe loss of blood or fluids from the body also can cause shock. This is known as hypovolemic (HI-po-vo-LE-mik) shock. Hypovolemic shock can happen as a result of:
                
Major external bleeding (for example, from a severe cut or injury)
                
Major internal bleeding (for example, from a ruptured blood vessel or injury that causes bleeding inside the body)
                
Major loss of body fluids from severe burns
                
Severe swelling of the pancreas (an organ that produces enzymes and hormones, such as insulin)
                
Severe diarrhea
                
Severe kidney disease
                
Overuse of diuretics
                
A major decrease in the heart's ability to pump blood also can cause shock. This is known as cardiogenic (KAR-de-o-JEN-ik) shock.
                
A heart attack, pulmonary embolism, or an ongoing arrhythmia (ah-RITH-me-ah) that disrupts heart function can cause this type of shock.
                
A sudden and extreme relaxation of the arteries linked to a drop in blood pressure also can cause shock. This is known as vasodilatory (VA-so-DI-la-tory) shock. It can occur due to:
                
A severe head injury
                
A reaction to certain medicines
                
Liver failure
                
Poisoning
                
A severe allergic reaction (called anaphylactic (AN-a-fi-LAK-tik) shock)

Question: What causes Carotid Artery Disease ?
Answer: Carotid artery disease seems to start when damage occurs to the inner layers of the carotid arteries. Major factors that contribute to damage include:
                
Smoking
                
High levels of certain fats and cholesterol in the blood
                
High blood pressure
                
High levels of sugar in the blood due to insulin resistance or diabetes
                
When damage occurs, your body starts a healing process. The healing may cause plaque to build up where the arteries are damaged.
                
The plaque in an artery can crack or rupture. If this happens, blood cell fragments called platelets will stick to the site of the injury and may clump together to form blood clots. 
                
The buildup of plaque or blood clots can severely narrow or block the carotid arteries. This limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your brain, which can cause a stroke.

Question: What causes Varicose Veins ?
Answer: Weak or damaged valves in the veins can cause varicose veins. After your arteries and capillaries deliver oxygen-rich blood to your body, your veins return the blood to your heart. The veins in your legs must work against gravity to do this.
                
One-way valves inside the veins open to let blood flow through, and then they shut to keep blood from flowing backward. If the valves are weak or damaged, blood can back up and pool in your veins. This causes the veins to swell.
                
Weak vein walls may cause weak valves. Normally, the walls of the veins are elastic (stretchy). If these walls become weak, they lose their normal elasticity. They become like an overstretched rubber band. This makes the walls of the veins longer and wider, and it causes the flaps of the valves to separate.
                
When the valve flaps separate, blood can flow backward through the valves. The backflow of blood fills the veins and stretches the walls even more. As a result, the veins get bigger, swell, and often twist as they try to squeeze into their normal space. These are varicose veins.
                
Normal Vein and Varicose Vein
                

                
Figure A shows a normal vein with a working valve and normal blood flow. Figure B shows a varicose vein with a deformed valve, abnormal blood flow, and thin, stretched walls. The middle image shows where varicose veins might appear in a leg.
                
Older age or a family history of varicose veins may raise your risk for weak vein walls. You also may be at higher risk if you have increased pressure in your veins due to overweight or obesity or pregnancy.

Question: What causes Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura ?
Answer: A lack of activity in the ADAMTS13 enzyme (a type of protein in the blood) causes thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). The ADAMTS13 gene controls the enzyme, which is involved in blood clotting.
                
Not having enough enzyme activity causes overactive blood clotting. In TTP, blood clots form in small blood vessels throughout the body. These clots can limit or block the flow of oxygen-rich blood to the body's organs, such as the brain, kidneys, and heart. As a result, serious health problems can develop.
                
The increased clotting that occurs in TTP also uses up many of the blood's platelets. With fewer platelets available in the blood, bleeding problems can occur.
                
People who have TTP may bleed inside their bodies, underneath the skin, or from the surface of the skin. When cut or injured, they also may bleed longer than normal.
                
TTP also can cause red blood cells to break apart faster than the body can replace them. This leads to hemolytic anemia.
                
Inherited Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura
                
In inherited TTP, the ADAMTS13 gene is faulty. It doesn't prompt the body to make a normal ADAMTS13 enzyme. As a result, enzyme activity is lacking or changed.
                
"Inherited" means that the condition is passed from parents to children through genes. A person who inherits TTP is born with two copies of the faulty geneone from each parent.
                
Most often, the parents each have one copy of the faulty gene, but have no signs or symptoms TTP.
                
Acquired Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura
                
In acquired TTP, the ADAMTS13 gene isn't faulty. Instead, the body makes antibodies (proteins) that block the activity of the ADAMTS13 enzyme.
                
"Acquired" means you aren't born with the condition, but you develop it sometime after birth.
                
Triggers for Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura
                
It's unclear what triggers inherited and acquired TTP, but some factors may play a role. These factors may include:
                
Some diseases and conditions, such as pregnancy, cancer, HIV, lupus, and infections
                
Some medical procedures, such as surgery and blood and marrow stem cell transplant
                
Some medicines, such as chemotherapy, ticlopidine, clopidogrel, cyclosporine A, and hormone therapy and estrogens
                
Quinine, which is a substance often found in tonic water and nutritional health products

Question: What causes Mitral Valve Prolapse ?
Answer: The exact cause of mitral valve prolapse (MVP) isn't known. Most people who have the condition are born with it. MVP tends to run in families. Also, it's more common in people who are born with connective tissue disorders, such as Marfan syndrome.
                
In people who have MVP, the mitral valve may be abnormal in the following ways:
                
The valve flaps may be too large and thick.
                
The valve flaps may be "floppy." The tissue of the flaps and their supporting "strings" are too stretchy, and parts of the valve flop or bulge back into the atrium.
                
The opening of the valve may stretch.
                
These problems can keep the valve from making a tight seal. Some people's valves are abnormal in more than one way.

Question: What causes Heart Failure ?
Answer: Conditions that damage or overwork the heart muscle can cause heart failure. Over time, the heart weakens. It isnt able to fill with and/or pump blood as well as it should. As the heart weakens, certain proteins and substances might be released into the blood. These substances have a toxic effect on the heart and blood flow, and they worsen heart failure.
                
Causes of heart failure include:
                
Coronary heart disease
                
Diabetes
                
High blood pressure
                
Other heart conditions or diseases
                
Other factors
                

                
Coronary Heart Disease
                
Coronary heart disease is a condition in which a waxy substance called plaque builds up inside the coronary arteries. These arteries supply oxygen-rich blood to your heart muscle.
                
Plaque narrows the arteries and reduces blood flow to your heart muscle. The buildup of plaque also makes it more likely that blood clots will form in your arteries. Blood clots can partially or completely block blood flow. Coronary heart disease can lead to chest pain or discomfort calledangina, aheart attack, and heart damage.
                

                
Diabetes
                
Diabetes is a disease in which the bodys blood glucose (sugar) level is too high. The body normally breaks down food into glucose and then carries it to cells throughout the body. The cells use a hormone called insulin to turn the glucose into energy.
                
In diabetes, the body doesnt make enough insulin or doesnt use its insulin properly. Over time, high blood sugar levels can damage and weaken the heart muscle and the blood vessels around the heart, leading to heart failure.
                

                
High Blood Pressure
                
Blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against the walls of the arteries. If this pressure rises and stays high over time, it can weaken your heart and lead to plaque buildup.
                
Blood pressure is considered high if it stays at or above 140/90 mmHg over time. (The mmHg is millimeters of mercurythe units used to measure blood pressure.) If you have diabetes or chronic kidney disease, high blood pressure is defined as 130/80 mmHg or higher.
                

                
Other Heart Conditions or Diseases
                
Other conditions and diseases also can lead to heart failure, such as:
                
Arrhythmia. Happens when a problem occurs with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat.
                
Cardiomyopathy.Happens when the heart muscle becomes enlarged, thick, or rigid.
                
Congenital heart defects. Problems with the hearts structure are present at birth.
                
Heart valve disease. Occurs if one or more of your heart valves doesnt work properly, which can be present at birth or caused by infection, other heart conditions, and age.
                

                
Other Factors
                
Other factors also can injure the heart muscle and lead to heart failure. Examples include:
                
Alcohol abuse or cocaine and other illegal drug use
                
HIV/AIDS
                
Thyroid disorders (having either too much or too little thyroid hormone in the body)
                
Too much vitamin E
                
Treatments for cancer, such as radiation and chemotherapy

Question: What causes Broken Heart Syndrome ?
Answer: The cause of broken heart syndrome isnt fully known. However, extreme emotional or physical stress is believed to play a role in causing the temporary disorder.
                
Although symptoms are similar to those of a heart attack, what is happening to the heart is quite different. Most heart attacks are caused by near or complete blockage of a coronary artery. In broken heart syndrome, the coronary arteries are not blocked, although blood flow may be reduced.
                
Potential Triggers
                
In most cases, broken heart syndrome occurs after an intense and upsetting emotional or physical event. Some potential triggers of broken heart syndrome are:
                
Emotional stressorsextreme grief, fear, or anger, for example as a result of the unexpected death of a loved one, financial or legal trouble, intense fear, domestic abuse, confrontational argument, car accident, public speaking, or even a surprise party.
                
Physical stressorsan asthma attack, serious illness or surgery, or exhausting physical effort.
                
Potential Causes
                
Researchers think that sudden stress releases hormones that overwhelm or stun the heart. (The term stunned is often used to indicate that the injury to the heart muscle is only temporary.) This can trigger changes in heart muscle cells or coronary blood vessels, or both. The heart becomes so weak that its left ventricle (which is the chamber that pumps blood from your heart to your body) bulges and cannot pump well, while the other parts of the heart work normally or with even more forceful contractions. As a result the heart is unable to pump properly. (For more information about the hearts pumping action and blood flow, go to the Health Topics How the Heart Works article.)
                
Researchers are trying to identify the precise way in which the stress hormones affect the heart. Broken heart syndrome may result from a hormone surge, coronary artery spasm, or microvascular dysfunction.
                
Hormone Surge
                
Intense stress causes large amounts of the fight or flight hormones, such as adrenaline and noradrenaline, to be released into your bloodstream. The hormones are meant to help you cope with the stress. Researchers think that the sudden surge of hormones overwhelms and stuns the heart muscle, producing symptoms similar to those of a heart attack.
                
Coronary Artery Spasm
                
Some research suggests that the extreme stress causes a temporary, sudden narrowing of one of the coronary arteries as a result of a spasm. The spasm slows or stops blood flow through the artery and starves part of the heart of oxygen-rich blood.
                
Microvascular Dysfunction
                
Another theory that is gaining traction is that the very small coronary arteries (called microvascular arteries) do not function well due to low hormone levels occurring before or after menopause. The microvascular arteries fail to provide enough oxygen-rich blood to the heart muscle.

Question: What causes Narcolepsy ?
Answer: Most people who have narcolepsy have low levels of hypocretin. This is a chemical in the brain that helps promote wakefulness. What causes low hypocretin levels isn't well understood.
                
Researchers think that certain factors may work together to cause a lack of hypocretin. These factors may include:
                
Heredity. Some people may inherit a gene that affects hypocretin. Up to 10 percent of people who have narcolepsy report having a relative who has the same symptoms.
                
Infections.
                
Brain injuries caused by conditions such as brain tumors, strokes, or trauma (for example, car accidents or military-related wounds).
                
Autoimmune disorders. With these disorders, the body's immune system mistakenly attacks the body's cells and tissues. An example of an autoimmune disorder is rheumatoid arthritis.
                
Low levels of histamine, a substance in the blood that promotes wakefulness.
                
Some research suggests that environmental toxins may play a role in triggering narcolepsy. Toxins may include heavy metals, pesticides and weed killers, and secondhand smoke.
                
Heredity alone doesn't cause narcolepsy. You also must have at least one other factor, such as one of those listed above, to develop narcolepsy.

Question: What causes Bronchiectasis ?
Answer: Damage to the walls of the airways usually is the cause of bronchiectasis. A lung infection may cause this damage. Examples of lung infections that can lead to bronchiectasis include:
                
Severe pneumonia (nu-MO-ne-ah)
                
Whooping cough or measles (uncommon in the United States due to vaccination)
                
Tuberculosis
                
Fungal infections
                
Conditions that damage the airways and raise the risk of lung infections also can lead to bronchiectasis. Examples of such conditions include:
                
Cystic fibrosis. This disease leads to almost half of the cases of bronchiectasis in the United States.
                
Immunodeficiency disorders, such as common variable immunodeficiency and, less often, HIV and AIDS.
                
Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (AS-per-ji-LO-sis). This is an allergic reaction to a fungus called aspergillus. The reaction causes swelling in the airways.
                
Disorders that affect cilia (SIL-e-ah) function, such as primary ciliary dyskinesia. Cilia are small, hair-like structures that line your airways. They help clear mucus (a slimy substance) out of your airways.
                
Chronic (ongoing) pulmonary aspiration (as-pih-RA-shun). This is a condition in which you inhale food, liquids, saliva, or vomited stomach contents into your lungs. Aspiration can inflame the airways, which can lead to bronchiectasis.
                
Connective tissue diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, Sjgrens syndrome, and Crohns disease.
                
Other conditions, such as an airway blockage, also can lead to bronchiectasis. Many things can cause a blockage, such as a growth or a noncancerous tumor. An inhaled object, such as a piece of a toy or a peanut that you inhaled as a child, also can cause an airway blockage.
                
A problem with how the lungs form in a fetus may cause congenital bronchiectasis. This condition affects infants and children.

Question: What causes Coronary Microvascular Disease ?
Answer: The same risk factors that cause atherosclerosis may cause coronary microvascular disease. Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up inside the arteries.
                
Risk factors for atherosclerosis include:
                
Diabetes. It is a disease in which the bodys blood sugar level is too high because the body doesnt make enough insulin or doesnt use its insulin properly.
                
Family history of early heart disease. Your risk of atherosclerosis increases if your father or a brother was diagnosed with heart disease before age 55, or if your mother or a sister was diagnosed with heart disease before age 65.
                
High blood pressure. Blood pressure is considered high if it stays at or above 140/90mmHg over time. If you have diabetes or chronic kidney disease, high blood pressure is defined as 130/80 mmHg or higher. (The mmHg is millimeters of mercurythe units used to measure blood pressure.)
                
Insulin resistance. This condition occurs if the body cant use its insulin properly. Insulin is a hormone that helps move blood sugar into cells where its used for energy. Overtime, insulin resistance can lead to diabetes.
                
Lack of physical activity. Physical inactivity can worsen some other risk factors for atherosclerosis, such as unhealthy blood cholesterol levels, high blood pressure, diabetes, and overweight or obesity.
                
Older age. As you age, your risk for atherosclerosis increases. The process of atherosclerosis begins in youth and typically progresses over many decades before disease develops.
                
Overweight and obesity. The terms overweight and obesity refer to body weight thats greater than what is considered healthy for a certain height.
                
Smoking. Smoking can damage and tighten blood vessels, lead to unhealthy cholesterol levels, and raise blood pressure. Smoking also doesnt allow enough oxygen to reach the bodys tissues.
                
Unhealthy blood cholesterol levels. This includes high LDL (bad) cholesterol and low HDL (good) cholesterol.
                
Unhealthy diet. An unhealthy diet can raise your risk for atherosclerosis. Foods that are high in saturated and trans fats, cholesterol, sodium (salt), and sugar can worsen other risk factors for atherosclerosis.
                
In women, coronary microvascular disease also may be linked to low estrogen levels occurring before or after menopause. Also, the disease may be linked to anemia or conditions that affect blood clotting. Anemia is thought to slow the growth of cells needed to repair damaged blood vessels.
                
Researchers continue to explore other possible causes of coronary microvascular disease.

Question: What causes Pneumonia ?
Answer: Many germs can cause pneumonia. Examples include different kinds of bacteria, viruses, and, less often, fungi.
                
Most of the time, the body filters germs out of the air that we breathe to protect the lungs from infection. Your immune system, the shape of your nose and throat, your ability to cough, and fine, hair-like structures called cilia (SIL-e-ah) help stop the germs from reaching your lungs. (For more information, go to the Diseases and Conditions Index How the Lungs Work article.)
                
Sometimes, though, germs manage to enter the lungs and cause infections. This is more likely to occur if:
                
Your immune system is weak
                
A germ is very strong
                
Your body fails to filter germs out of the air that you breathe
                
For example, if you can't cough because you've had a stroke or are sedated, germs may remain in your airways. ("Sedated" means you're given medicine to make you sleepy.)
                
When germs reach your lungs, your immune system goes into action. It sends many kinds of cells to attack the germs. These cells cause the alveoli (air sacs) to become red and inflamed and to fill up with fluid and pus. This causes the symptoms of pneumonia.
                
Germs That Can Cause Pneumonia
                
Bacteria
                
Bacteria are the most common cause of pneumonia in adults. Some people, especially the elderly and those who are disabled, may get bacterial pneumonia after having the flu or even a common cold.
                
Many types of bacteria can cause pneumonia. Bacterial pneumonia can occur on its own or develop after you've had a cold or the flu. This type of pneumonia often affects one lobe, or area, of a lung. When this happens, the condition is called lobar pneumonia.
                
The most common cause of pneumonia in the United States is the bacterium Streptococcus (strep-to-KOK-us) pneumoniae, or pneumococcus (nu-mo-KOK-us).
                
Lobar Pneumonia
                

                
Another type of bacterial pneumonia is called atypical pneumonia. Atypical pneumonia includes:
                
Legionella pneumophila. This type of pneumonia sometimes is called Legionnaire's disease, and it has caused serious outbreaks. Outbreaks have been linked to exposure to cooling towers, whirlpool spas, and decorative fountains.
                
Mycoplasma pneumonia. This is a common type of pneumonia that usually affects people younger than 40 years old. People who live or work in crowded places like schools, homeless shelters, and prisons are at higher risk for this type of pneumonia. It's usually mild and responds well to treatment with antibiotics. However, mycoplasma pneumonia can be very serious. It may be associated with a skin rash and hemolysis (the breakdown of red blood cells).
                
Chlamydophila pneumoniae. This type of pneumonia can occur all year and often is mild. The infection is most common in people 65 to 79 years old.
                
Viruses
                
Respiratory viruses cause up to one-third of the pneumonia cases in the United States each year. These viruses are the most common cause of pneumonia in children younger than 5 years old.
                
Most cases of viral pneumonia are mild. They get better in about 1 to 3 weeks without treatment. Some cases are more serious and may require treatment in a hospital.
                
If you have viral pneumonia, you run the risk of getting bacterial pneumonia as well.
                
The flu virus is the most common cause of viral pneumonia in adults. Other viruses that cause pneumonia include respiratory syncytial virus, rhinovirus, herpes simplex virus, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), and more.
                
Fungi
                
Three types of fungi in the soil in some parts of the United States can cause pneumonia. These fungi are:
                
Coccidioidomycosis (kok-sid-e-OY-do-mi-KO-sis). This fungus is found in Southern California and the desert Southwest.
                
Histoplasmosis (HIS-to-plaz-MO-sis). This fungus is found in the Ohio and Mississippi River Valleys.
                
Cryptococcus (krip-to-KOK-us). This fungus is found throughout the United States in bird droppings and soil contaminated with bird droppings.
                
Most people exposed to these fungi don't get sick, but some do and require treatment.
                
Serious fungal infections are most common in people who have weak immune systems due to the long-term use of medicines to suppress their immune systems or having HIV/AIDS.
                
Pneumocystis jiroveci (nu-mo-SIS-tis ye-RO-VECH-e), formerly Pneumocystis carinii, sometimes is considered a fungal pneumonia. However, it's not treated with the usual antifungal medicines. This type of infection is most common in people who:
                
Have HIV/AIDS or cancer
                
Have had an organ transplant and/or blood and marrow stem cell transplant
                
Take medicines that affect their immune systems
                
Other kinds of fungal infections also can lead to pneumonia.

Question: What causes Pernicious Anemia ?
Answer: Pernicious anemia is caused by a lack of intrinsic factor or other causes, such as infections, surgery, medicines, or diet.
                
Lack of Intrinsic Factor
                
Intrinsic factor is a protein made in the stomach. It helps your body absorb vitamin B12. In some people, an autoimmune response causes a lack of intrinsic factor.
                
An autoimmune response occurs if the bodys immune system makes antibodies (proteins) that mistakenly attack and damage the body's tissues or cells.
                
In pernicious anemia, the body makes antibodies that attack and destroy the parietal (pa-RI-eh-tal) cells. These cells line the stomach and make intrinsic factor. Why this autoimmune response occurs isn't known.
                
As a result of this attack, the stomach stops making intrinsic factor. Without intrinsic factor, your body can't move vitamin B12 through the small intestine, where it's absorbed. This leads to vitamin B12 deficiency.
                
A lack of intrinsic factor also can occur if you've had part or all of your stomach surgically removed. This type of surgery reduces the number of parietal cells available to make intrinsic factor.
                
Rarely, children are born with an inherited disorder that prevents their bodies from making intrinsic factor. This disorder is called congenital pernicious anemia.
                
Other Causes
                
Pernicious anemia also has other causes, besides a lack of intrinsic factor. Malabsorption in the small intestine and a diet lacking vitamin B12 both can lead to pernicious anemia.
                
Malabsorption in the Small Intestine
                
Sometimes pernicious anemia occurs because the body's small intestine can't properly absorb vitamin B12. This may be the result of:
                
Too many of the wrong kind of bacteria in the small intestine. This is a common cause of pernicious anemia in older adults. The bacteria use up the available vitamin B12 before the small intestine can absorb it.
                
Diseases that interfere with vitamin B12 absorption. One example is celiac disease. This is a genetic disorder in which your body can't tolerate a protein called gluten. Another example is Crohn's disease, an inflammatory bowel disease. HIV also may interfere with vitamin B12 absorption.
                
Certain medicines that alter bacterial growth or prevent the small intestine from properly absorbing vitamin B12. Examples include antibiotics and certain diabetes and seizure medicines.
                
Surgical removal of part or all of the small intestine.
                
A tapeworm infection. The tapeworm feeds off of the vitamin B12. Eating undercooked, infected fish may cause this type of infection.
                
Diet Lacking Vitamin B12
                
Some people get pernicious anemia because they don't have enough vitamin B12 in their diets. This cause of pernicious anemia is less common than other causes.
                
Good food sources of vitamin B12 include:
                
Breakfast cereals with added vitamin B12
                
Meats such as beef, liver, poultry, and fish
                
Eggs and dairy products (such as milk, yogurt, and cheese)
                
Foods fortified with vitamin B12, such as soy-based beverages and vegetarian burgers
                
Strict vegetarians who don't eat any animal or dairy products and don't take a vitamin B12 supplement are at risk for pernicious anemia.
                
Breastfed infants of strict vegetarian mothers also are at risk for pernicious anemia. These infants can develop anemia within months of being born. This is because they haven't had enough time to store vitamin B12 in their bodies. Doctors treat these infants with vitamin B12 supplements.
                
Other groups, such as the elderly and people who suffer from alcoholism, also may be at risk for pernicious anemia. These people may not get the proper nutrients in their diets.

Question: What causes Sleep Apnea ?
Answer: When you're awake, throat muscles help keep your airway stiff and open so air can flow into your lungs. When you sleep, these muscles relax, which narrows your throat.
                
Normally, this narrowing doesnt prevent air from flowing into and out of your lungs. But if you have sleep apnea, your airway can become partially or fully blocked because:
                
Your throat muscles and tongue relax more than normal.
                
Your tongue and tonsils (tissue masses in the back of your mouth) are large compared with the opening into your windpipe.
                
You're overweight. The extra soft fat tissue can thicken the wall of the windpipe. This narrows the inside of the windpipe, which makes it harder to keep open.
                
The shape of your head and neck (bony structure) may cause a smaller airway size in the mouth and throat area.
                
The aging process limits your brain signals' ability to keep your throat muscles stiff during sleep. Thus, your airway is more likely to narrow or collapse.
                
Not enough air flows into your lungs if your airway is partially or fully blocked during sleep. As a result, loud snoring and a drop in your blood oxygen level can occur.
                
If the oxygen drops to a dangerous level, it triggers your brain to disturb your sleep. This helps tighten the upper airway muscles and open your windpipe. Normal breathing then starts again, often with a loud snort or choking sound.
                
Frequent drops in your blood oxygen level and reduced sleep quality can trigger the release of stress hormones. These hormones raise your heart rate and increase your risk for high blood pressure, heart attack, stroke, and arrhythmias (irregular heartbeats). The hormones also can raise your risk for, or worsen, heart failure.
                
Untreated sleep apnea also can lead to changes in how your body uses energy. These changes increase your risk for obesity and diabetes.

Question: What causes Atherosclerosis ?
Answer: The exact cause of atherosclerosis isn't known. However, studies show that atherosclerosis is a slow, complex disease that may start in childhood. It develops faster as you age.
                
Atherosclerosis may start when certain factors damage the inner layers of the arteries. These factors include:
                
Smoking
                
High amounts of certain fats and cholesterol in the blood
                
High blood pressure
                
High amounts of sugar in the blood due to insulin resistance or diabetes
                
Plaque may begin to build up where the arteries are damaged. Over time, plaque hardens and narrows the arteries. Eventually, an area of plaque can rupture (break open).
                
When this happens, blood cell fragments called platelets (PLATE-lets) stick to the site of the injury. They may clump together to form blood clots. Clots narrow the arteries even more, limiting the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your body.
                
Depending on which arteries are affected, blood clots can worsen angina (chest pain) or cause a heart attack or stroke.
                
Researchers continue to look for the causes of atherosclerosis. They hope to find answers to questions such as:
                
Why and how do the arteries become damaged?
                
How does plaque develop and change over time?
                
Why does plaque rupture and lead to blood clots?

Question: What causes Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia ?
Answer: Primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) is a rare, inherited disease. "Inherited" means the disease is passed from parents to children through genes. With PCD, this process is very complex. Researchers are still learning how the disease is inherited and which genes are involved.
                
Generally, a child must inherit faulty genes from both parents to have PCD. These genes affect how cilia grow and function. Cilia are tiny, hair-like structures that line the airways.
                
The airways include your nose and linked air passages; mouth; larynx (LAR-ingks), or voice box; trachea (TRA-ke-ah), or windpipe; and tubes called bronchial tubes or bronchi, and their branches.
                
Cilia move mucus (a slimy substance) through your airways and toward your mouth to be coughed or sneezed out of your body. The mucus contains inhaled dust, bacteria, and other small particles.
                
Faulty genes may cause the cilia to be the wrong size or shape or move in the wrong way. Sometimes the cilia are missing altogether. If the cilia don't work well, bacteria stay in your airways. This can cause breathing problems, infections, and other disorders.
                
Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia
                

                
No single faulty gene causes all cases of PCD. Rather, many genes are associated with the disease.
                
If a child inherits a faulty gene (or genes) from only one parent, he or she may be a "PCD carrier." Carriers usually have no symptoms of PCD. However, carriers can pass faulty PCD genes on to their children.

Question: What causes Kawasaki Disease ?
Answer: The cause of Kawasaki disease isn't known. The body's response to a virus or infection combined with genetic factors may cause the disease. However, no specific virus or infection has been found, and the role of genetics isn't known.
                
Kawasaki disease can't be passed from one child to another. Your child won't get it from close contact with a child who has the disease. Also, if your child has the disease, he or she can't pass it to another child.

Question: What causes Hypersensitivity Pneumonitis ?
Answer: Repeatedly breathing in foreign substances can cause hypersensitivity pneumonitis (HP). Examples of these substances include molds, dusts, and chemicals. (Mold often is the cause of HP.) These substances also are known as antigens.
                
Over time, your lungs can become sensitive to antigens. If this happens, your lungs will become inflamed, which can lead to symptoms and may even cause long-term lung damage.
                
Antigens may be found in the home, workplace, or in other settings. Antigens can come from many sources, such as:
                
Bird droppings
                
Humidifiers, heating systems, and hot tubs
                
Liquid chemicals used in the landscaping and florist industries
                
Moldy hay, straw, and grain
                
Chemicals released during the production of plastics and electronics, and chemicals released during painting
                
Mold released during lumber milling, construction, and wood stripping

Question: What causes High Blood Pressure ?
Answer: Changes, either fromgenesor the environment, in the bodys normal functions may cause high blood pressure, including changes to kidney fluid and salt balances, therenin-angiotensin-aldosterone system,sympathetic nervous systemactivity, and blood vessel structure and function.
                
Biology and High Blood Pressure
                
Researchers continue to study how various changes in normal body functions cause high blood pressure. The key functions affected in high blood pressure include:
                
Kidney fluid and salt balances
                
Renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system
                
Sympathetic nervous system activity
                
Blood vessel structure and function
                

                
Kidney Fluid and Salt Balances
                
The kidneys normally regulate the bodys salt balance by retaining sodium and water and excreting potassium. Imbalances in this kidney function can expand blood volumes, which can cause high blood pressure.
                

                
Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System
                
The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system makes angiotensin and aldosterone hormones. Angiotensin narrows or constricts blood vessels, which can lead to an increase in blood pressure. Aldosterone controls how the kidneys balance fluid and salt levels. Increased aldosterone levels or activity may change this kidney function, leading to increased blood volumes and high blood pressure.
                

                
Sympathetic Nervous System Activity
                
The sympathetic nervous system has important functions in blood pressure regulation, including heart rate, blood pressure, and breathing rate. Researchers are investigating whether imbalances in this system cause high blood pressure.
                

                
Blood Vessel Structure and Function
                
Changes in the structure and function of small and large arteries may contribute to high blood pressure. The angiotensin pathway and the immune system may stiffen small and large arteries, which can affect blood pressure.
                

                
Genetic Causes of High Blood Pressure
                
Much of the understanding of the body systems involved in high blood pressure has come from genetic studies. High blood pressure often runs in families. Years of research have identified many genes and other mutations associated with high blood pressure, some in the renal salt regulatory and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone pathways. However, these known genetic factors only account for 2 to 3percent of all cases. Emerging research suggests that certain DNA changes during fetal development also may cause the development of high blood pressure later in life.
                
Environmental Causes of High Blood Pressure
                
Environmental causes of high blood pressure include unhealthy lifestyle habits, being overweight or obese, and medicines.
                

                
Unhealthy Lifestyle Habits
                
Unhealthy lifestyle habits can cause high blood pressure, including:
                
High dietary sodium intake and sodium sensitivity
                
Drinking excess amounts of alcohol
                
Lack of physical activity
                

                
Overweight and Obesity
                
Research studies show that being overweight or obese can increase the resistance in the blood vessels, causing the heart to work harder and leading to high blood pressure.
                

                
Medicines
                
Prescription medicines such as asthma or hormone therapies, including birth control pills and estrogen, and over-the-counter medicines such as cold relief medicines may cause this form of high blood pressure. This happens because medicines can change the way your body controls fluid and salt balances, cause your blood vessels to constrict, or impact the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system leading to high blood pressure.
                
Other Medical Causes of High Blood Pressure
                
Other medical causes of high blood pressure include other medical conditions such as chronic kidney disease, sleep apnea, thyroid problems, or certain tumors. This happens because these other conditions change the way your body controls fluids, sodium, and hormones in your blood, which leads to secondary high blood pressure.

Question: What causes Metabolic Syndrome ?
Answer: Metabolic syndrome has several causes that act together. You can control some of the causes, such as overweight and obesity, an inactive lifestyle, and insulin resistance.
                
You can't control other factors that may play a role in causing metabolic syndrome, such as growing older. Your risk for metabolic syndrome increases with age.
                
You also can't control genetics (ethnicity and family history), which may play a role in causing the condition. For example, genetics can increase your risk for insulin resistance, which can lead to metabolic syndrome.
                
People who have metabolic syndrome often have two other conditions: excessive blood clotting and constant, low-grade inflammation throughout the body. Researchers don't know whether these conditions cause metabolic syndrome or worsen it.
                
Researchers continue to study conditions that may play a role in metabolic syndrome, such as:
                
A fatty liver (excess triglycerides and other fats in the liver)
                
Polycystic ovarian syndrome (a tendency to develop cysts on the ovaries)
                
Gallstones
                
Breathing problems during sleep (such as sleep apnea)

Question: What causes Heart Attack ?
Answer: Coronary Heart Disease
                
A heart attack happens if the flow of oxygen-rich blood to a section of heart muscle suddenly becomes blocked and the heart can't get oxygen. Most heart attacks occur as a result of coronary heart disease (CHD).
                
CHD is a condition in which a waxy substance called plaque builds up inside of the coronary arteries. These arteries supply oxygen-rich blood to your heart.
                
When plaque builds up in the arteries, the condition is called atherosclerosis. The buildup of plaque occurs over many years.
                
Eventually, an area of plaque can rupture (break open) inside of an artery. This causes a blood clot to form on the plaque's surface. If the clot becomes large enough, it can mostly or completely block blood flow through a coronary artery.
                
If the blockage isn't treated quickly, the portion of heart muscle fed by the artery begins to die. Healthy heart tissue is replaced with scar tissue. This heart damage may not be obvious, or it may cause severe or long-lasting problems.
                
Coronary Artery Spasm
                
A less common cause of heart attack is a severe spasm (tightening) of a coronary artery. The spasm cuts off blood flow through the artery. Spasms can occur in coronary arteries that aren't affected by atherosclerosis.
                
What causes a coronary artery to spasm isn't always clear. A spasm may be related to:
                
Taking certain drugs, such as cocaine
                
Emotional stress or pain
                
Exposure to extreme cold
                
Cigarette smoking

Question: What causes Pericarditis ?
Answer: In many cases, the cause of pericarditis (both acute and chronic) is unknown.
                
Viral infections are likely a common cause of pericarditis, although the virus may never be found. Pericarditis often occurs after a respiratory infection. Bacterial, fungal, and other infections also can cause pericarditis.
                
Most cases of chronic, or recurring, pericarditis are thought to be the result of autoimmune disorders. Examples of such disorders include lupus, scleroderma, and rheumatoid arthritis.
                
With autoimmune disorders, the body's immune system makes antibodies (proteins) that mistakenly attack the body's tissues or cells.
                
Other possible causes of pericarditis are:
                
Heart attack and heart surgery
                
Kidney failure, HIV/AIDS, cancer, tuberculosis, and other health problems
                
Injuries from accidents or radiation therapy
                
Certain medicines, like phenytoin (an antiseizure medicine), warfarin and heparin (blood-thinning medicines), and procainamide (a medicine to treat irregular heartbeats)

Question: What causes Obesity Hypoventilation Syndrome ?
Answer: Obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS) is a breathing disorder that affects some obese people. Why these people develop OHS isn't fully known. Researchers think that several factors may work together to cause OHS. These factors include:
                
A respiratory (RES-pih-rah-tor-e) system that has to work harder than normal and perhaps differently because of excess body weight. (The respiratory system is a group of organs and tissues, including the lungs, that helps you breathe.)
                
A slow response by the body to fix the problem of too much carbon dioxide and too little oxygen in the blood.
                
The presence of sleep apnea, usually obstructive sleep apnea.

Question: What causes Hemolytic Anemia ?
Answer: The immediate cause of hemolytic anemia is the early destruction of red blood cells. This means that red blood cells are destroyed and removed from the bloodstream before their normal lifespan is over.
                
Many diseases, conditions, and factors can cause the body to destroy its red blood cells. These causes can be inherited or acquired. "Inherited" means your parents passed the gene for the condition on to you. "Acquired" means you aren't born with the condition, but you develop it.
                
Sometimes, the cause of hemolytic anemia isn't known.
                
For more information about the specific causes of hemolytic anemia, go to "Types of Hemolytic Anemia."
                
Inherited Hemolytic Anemias
                
In inherited hemolytic anemias, the genes that control how red blood cells are made are faulty. You can get a faulty red blood cell gene from one or both of your parents.
                
Different types of faulty genes cause different types of inherited hemolytic anemia. However, in each type, the body makes abnormal red blood cells. The problem with the red blood cells may involve the hemoglobin, cell membrane, or enzymes that maintain healthy red blood cells.
                
The abnormal cells may be fragile and break down while moving through the bloodstream. If this happens, an organ called the spleen may remove the cell debris from the bloodstream.
                
Acquired Hemolytic Anemias
                
In acquired hemolytic anemias, the body makes normal red blood cells. However, a disease, condition, or other factor destroys the cells. Examples of conditions that can destroy the red blood cells include:
                
Immune disorders
                
Infections
                
Reactions to medicines or blood transfusions
                
Hypersplenism (HI-per-SPLEEN-izm; an enlarged spleen)

Question: What causes Thalassemias ?
Answer: Your body makes three types of blood cells: red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets (PLATE-lets). Red blood cells contain hemoglobin, an iron-rich protein that carries oxygen from your lungs to all parts of your body. Hemoglobin also carries carbon dioxide (a waste gas) from your body to your lungs, where it's exhaled.
                
Hemoglobin has two kinds of protein chains: alpha globin and beta globin. If your body doesn't make enough of these protein chains or they're abnormal, red blood cells won't form correctly or carry enough oxygen. Your body won't work well if your red blood cells don't make enough healthy hemoglobin.
                
Genes control how the body makes hemoglobin protein chains. When these genes are missing or altered, thalassemias occur.
                
Thalassemias are inherited disordersthat is, they're passed from parents to children through genes. People who inherit faulty hemoglobin genes from one parent but normal genes from the other are called carriers. Carriers often have no signs of illness other than mild anemia. However, they can pass the faulty genes on to their children.
                
People who have moderate to severe forms of thalassemia have inherited faulty genes from both parents.
                
Alpha Thalassemias
                
You need four genes (two from each parent) to make enough alpha globin protein chains. If one or more of the genes is missing, you'll have alpha thalassemia trait or disease. This means that your body doesn't make enough alpha globin protein.
                
If you're only missing one gene, you're a "silent" carrier. This means you won't have any signs of illness.
                
If you're missing two genes, you have alpha thalassemia trait (also called alpha thalassemia minor). You may have mild anemia.
                
If you're missing three genes, you likely have hemoglobin H disease (which a blood test can detect). This form of thalassemia causes moderate to severe anemia.
                
Very rarely, a baby is missing all four genes. This condition is called alpha thalassemia major or hydrops fetalis. Babies who have hydrops fetalis usually die before or shortly after birth.
                
Example of an Inheritance Pattern for Alpha Thalassemia
                

                
Beta Thalassemias
                
You need two genes (one from each parent) to make enough beta globin protein chains. If one or both of these genes are altered, you'll have beta thalassemia. This means that your body wont make enough beta globin protein.
                
If you have one altered gene, you're a carrier. This condition is called beta thalassemia trait or beta thalassemia minor. It causes mild anemia.
                
If both genes are altered, you'll have beta thalassemia intermedia or beta thalassemia major (also called Cooley's anemia). The intermedia form of the disorder causes moderate anemia. The major form causes severe anemia.
                
Example of an Inheritance Pattern for Beta Thalassemia

Question: What causes Fanconi Anemia ?
Answer: Fanconi anemia (FA) is an inherited disease. The term inherited means that the disease is passed from parents to children through genes. At least 13 faulty genes are associated with FA. FA occurs when both parents pass the same faulty FA gene to their child.
                
People who have only one faulty FA gene are FA "carriers." Carriers don't have FA, but they can pass the faulty gene to their children.
                
If both of your parents have a faulty FA gene, you have:
                
A 25 percent chance of having FA
                
A 25 percent chance of not having FA
                
A 50 percent chance of being an FA carrier and passing the gene to any children you have
                
If only one of your parents has a faulty FA gene, you won't have the disorder. However, you have a 50 percent chance of being an FA carrier and passing the gene to any children you have.

Question: What causes Atrial Fibrillation ?
Answer: Atrial fibrillation (AF) occurs if the heart's electrical signals don't travel through the heart in a normal way. Instead, they become very rapid and disorganized.
                
Damage to the heart's electrical system causes AF. The damage most often is the result of other conditions that affect the health of the heart, such as high blood pressure and coronary heart disease.
                
The risk of AF increases as you age. Inflammation also is thought to play a role in causing AF.
                
Sometimes, the cause of AF is unknown.

Question: What causes Angina ?
Answer: Underlying Causes
                
Angina usually is a symptom of coronary heart disease (CHD). This means that the underlying causes of angina generally are the same as the underlying causes of CHD.
                
Research suggests that CHD starts when certain factors damage the inner layers of the coronary arteries. These factors include:
                
Smoking
                
High amounts of certain fats and cholesterol in the blood
                
High blood pressure
                
High amounts of sugar in the blood due to insulin resistance or diabetes
                
Plaque may begin to build up where the arteries are damaged. When plaque builds up in the arteries, the condition is called atherosclerosis (ath-er-o-skler-O-sis).
                
Plaque narrows or blocks the arteries, reducing blood flow to the heart muscle. Some plaque is hard and stable and causes the arteries to become narrow and stiff. This can greatly reduce blood flow to the heart and cause angina.
                
Other plaque is soft and more likely to rupture (break open) and cause blood clots. Blood clots can partially or totally block the coronary arteries and cause angina or a heart attack.
                
Immediate Causes
                
Many factors can trigger angina pain, depending on the type of angina you have.
                
Stable Angina
                
Physical exertion is the most common trigger of stable angina. Severely narrowed arteries may allow enough blood to reach the heart when the demand for oxygen is low, such as when you're sitting.
                
However, with physical exertionlike walking up a hill or climbing stairsthe heart works harder and needs more oxygen.
                
Other triggers of stable angina include:
                
Emotional stress
                
Exposure to very hot or cold temperatures
                
Heavy meals
                
Smoking
                
Unstable Angina
                
Blood clots that partially or totally block an artery cause unstable angina.
                
If plaque in an artery ruptures, blood clots may form. This creates a blockage. A clot may grow large enough to completely block the artery and cause a heart attack. For more information, go to the animation in "What Causes a Heart Attack?"
                
Blood clots may form, partially dissolve, and later form again. Angina can occur each time a clot blocks an artery.
                
Variant Angina
                
A spasm in a coronary artery causes variant angina. The spasm causes the walls of the artery to tighten and narrow. Blood flow to the heart slows or stops. Variant angina can occur in people who have CHD and in those who dont.
                
The coronary arteries can spasm as a result of:
                
Exposure to cold
                
Emotional stress
                
Medicines that tighten or narrow blood vessels
                
Smoking
                
Cocaine use
                
Microvascular Angina
                
This type of angina may be a symptom of coronary microvascular disease (MVD). Coronary MVD is heart disease that affects the hearts smallest coronary arteries.
                
Reduced blood flow in the small coronary arteries may cause microvascular angina. Plaque in the arteries, artery spasms, or damaged or diseased artery walls can reduce blood flow through the small coronary arteries.

Question: What causes Heart Murmur ?
Answer: Innocent Heart Murmurs
                
Why some people have innocent heart murmurs and others do not isn't known. Innocent murmurs are simply sounds made by blood flowing through the heart's chambers and valves, or through blood vessels near the heart.
                
Extra blood flow through the heart also may cause innocent heart murmurs. After childhood, the most common cause of extra blood flow through the heart is pregnancy. This is because during pregnancy, women's bodies make extra blood. Most heart murmurs that occur in pregnant women are innocent.
                
Abnormal Heart Murmurs
                
Congenital heart defects or acquired heart valve disease often are the cause of abnormal heart murmurs.
                
Congenital Heart Defects
                
Congenital heart defects are the most common cause of abnormal heart murmurs in children. These defects are problems with the heart's structure that are present at birth. They change the normal flow of blood through the heart.
                
Congenital heart defects can involve the interior walls of the heart, the valves inside the heart, or the arteries and veins that carry blood to and from the heart. Some babies are born with more than one heart defect.
                
Heart valve problems, septal defects (also called holes in the heart), and diseases of the heart muscle such as hypertrophic cardiomyopathy are common heart defects that cause abnormal heart murmurs.
                
Examples of valve problems are narrow valves that limit blood flow or leaky valves that don't close properly. Septal defects are holes in the wall that separates the right and left sides of the heart. This wall is called the septum.
                
A hole in the septum between the heart's two upper chambers is called an atrial septal defect. A hole in the septum between the heart's two lower chambers is called a ventricular septal defect.
                
Hypertrophic (hi-per-TROF-ik) cardiomyopathy (kar-de-o-mi-OP-ah-thee) (HCM) occurs if heart muscle cells enlarge and cause the walls of the ventricles (usually the left ventricle) to thicken. The thickening may block blood flow out of the ventricle. If a blockage occurs, the ventricle must work hard to pump blood to the body. HCM also can affect the hearts mitral valve, causing blood to leak backward through the valve.
                
Heart Defects That Can Cause Abnormal Heart Murmurs
                

                
For more information, go to the Health Topics Congenital Heart Defects article.
                
Acquired Heart Valve Disease
                
Acquired heart valve disease often is the cause of abnormal heart murmurs in adults. This is heart valve disease that develops as the result of another condition.
                
Many conditions can cause heart valve disease. Examples include heart conditions and other disorders, age-related changes, rheumatic (ru-MAT-ik) fever, and infections.
                
Heart conditions and other disorders. Certain conditions can stretch and distort the heart valves, such as:
                
Damage and scar tissue from a heart attack or injury to the heart.
                
Advanced high blood pressure and heart failure. These conditions can enlarge the heart or its main arteries.
                
Age-related changes. As you get older, calcium deposits or other deposits may form on your heart valves. These deposits stiffen and thicken the valve flaps and limit blood flow. This stiffening and thickening of the valve is called sclerosis (skle-RO-sis).
                
Rheumatic fever. The bacteria that cause strep throat, scarlet fever, and, in some cases, impetigo (im-peh-TI-go) also can cause rheumatic fever. This serious illness can develop if you have an untreated or not fully treated streptococcal (strep) infection.
                
Rheumatic fever can damage and scar the heart valves. The symptoms of this heart valve damage often don't occur until many years after recovery from rheumatic fever.
                
Today, most people who have strep infections are treated with antibiotics before rheumatic fever develops. It's very important to take all of the antibiotics your doctor prescribes for strep throat, even if you feel better before the medicine is gone.
                
Infections. Common germs that enter the bloodstream and get carried to the heart can sometimes infect the inner surface of the heart, including the heart valves. This rare but sometimes life-threatening infection is called infective endocarditis (EN-do-kar-DI-tis), or IE.
                
IE is more likely to develop in people who already have abnormal blood flow through a heart valve because of heart valve disease. The abnormal blood flow causes blood clots to form on the surface of the valve. The blood clots make it easier for germs to attach to and infect the valve.
                
IE can worsen existing heart valve disease.
                
Other Causes
                
Some heart murmurs occur because of an illness outside of the heart. The heart is normal, but an illness or condition can cause blood flow that's faster than normal. Examples of this type of illness include fever, anemia (uh-NEE-me-eh), and hyperthyroidism.
                
Anemia is a condition in which the body has a lower than normal number of red blood cells. Hyperthyroidism is a condition in which the body has too much thyroid hormone.

Question: What causes Heart Block ?
Answer: Heart block has many causes. Some people are born with the disorder (congenital), while others develop it during their lifetimes (acquired).
                
Congenital Heart Block
                
One form of congenital heart block occurs in babies whose mothers have autoimmune diseases, such as lupus. People who have these diseases make proteins called antibodies that attack and damage the body's tissues or cells.
                
In pregnant women, antibodies can cross the placenta. (The placenta is the organ that attaches the umbilical cord to the mother's womb.) These proteins can damage the baby's heart and lead to congenital heart block.
                
Congenital heart defects also may cause congenital heart block. These defects are problems with the heart's structure that are present at birth. Often, doctors don't know what causes these defects.
                
Acquired Heart Block
                
Many factors can cause acquired heart block. Examples include:
                
Damage to the heart from a heart attack. This is the most common cause of acquired heart block.
                
Coronary heart disease, also called coronary artery disease.
                
Myocarditis (MI-o-kar-DI-tis), or inflammation of the heart muscle.
                
Heart failure.
                
Rheumatic (roo-MAT-ik) fever.
                
Cardiomyopathy (KAR-de-o-mi-OP-a-the), or heart muscle diseases.
                
Other diseases may increase the risk of heart block. Examples include sarcoidosis (sar-koy-DOE-sis) and the degenerative muscle disorders Lev's disease and Lenegre's disease.
                
Certain types of surgery also may damage the heart's electrical system and lead to heart block.
                
Exposure to toxic substances and taking certain medicinesincluding digitalis, beta blockers, and calcium channel blockersalso may cause heart block. Doctors closely watch people who are taking these medicines for signs of problems.
                
Some types of heart block have been linked to genetic mutations (changes in the genes).
                
An overly active vagus nerve also can cause heart block. You have one vagus nerve on each side of your body. These nerves run from your brain stem all the way to your abdomen. Activity in the vagus nerve slows the heart rate.
                
In some cases, acquired heart block may go away if the factor causing it is treated or resolved. For example, heart block that occurs after a heart attack or surgery may go away during recovery.
                
Also, if a medicine is causing heart block, the disorder may go away if the medicine is stopped or the dosage is lowered. Always talk with your doctor before you change the way you take your medicines.

Question: What causes Asthma ?
Answer: The exact cause of asthma isn't known. Researchers think some genetic and environmental factors interact to cause asthma, most often early in life. These factors include:
                
An inherited tendency to develop allergies, called atopy (AT-o-pe)
                
Parents who have asthma
                
Certain respiratory infections during childhood
                
Contact with some airborne allergens or exposure to some viral infections in infancy or in early childhood when the immune system is developing
                
If asthma or atopy runs in your family, exposure to irritants (for example, tobacco smoke) may make your airways more reactive to substances in the air.
                
Some factors may be more likely to cause asthma in some people than in others. Researchers continue to explore what causes asthma.
                
The "Hygiene Hypothesis"
                
One theory researchers have for what causes asthma is the "hygiene hypothesis." They believe that our Western lifestylewith its emphasis on hygiene and sanitationhas resulted in changes in our living conditions and an overall decline in infections in early childhood.
                
Many young children no longer have the same types of environmental exposures and infections as children did in the past. This affects the way that young children's immune systems develop during very early childhood, and it may increase their risk for atopy and asthma. This is especially true for children who have close family members with one or both of these conditions.

Question: What causes Patent Ductus Arteriosus ?
Answer: If your child has patent ductus arteriosus (PDA), you may think you did something wrong during your pregnancy to cause the problem. However, the cause of patent ductus arteriosus isn't known.
                
Genetics may play a role in causing the condition. A defect in one or more genes might prevent the ductus arteriosus from closing after birth.

Question: What causes Sickle Cell Disease ?
Answer: Abnormal hemoglobin, called hemoglobin S, causes sickle cell disease (SCD).
                
The problem in hemoglobin S is caused by a small defect in the gene that directs the production of the beta globin part of hemoglobin. This small defect in the beta globin gene causes a problem in the beta globin part of hemoglobin, changing the way that hemoglobin works. (See Overview.)
                

                
How Is Sickle Cell Disease Inherited?
                
When the hemoglobin S gene is inherited from only one parent and a normal hemoglobin gene is inherited from the other, a person will have sickle cell trait. People with sickle cell trait are generally healthy.
                
Only rarely do people with sickle cell trait have complications similar to those seen in people with SCD. But people with sickle cell trait are carriers of a defective hemoglobin S gene. So, they can pass it on when they have a child.
                
If the childs other parent also has sickle cell trait or another abnormal hemoglobin gene (like thalassemia, hemoglobin C, hemoglobin D, hemoglobin E), that child has a chance of having SCD.
                
Example of an Inheritance Pattern
                

                
In the image above, each parent has one hemoglobin A gene and one hemoglobin S gene, and each of their children has:
                
A 25 percent chance of inheriting two normal genes: In this case the child does not have sickle cell trait or disease. (Case 1)
                
A 50 percent chance of inheriting one hemoglobin A gene and one hemoglobin S gene: This child has sickle cell trait. (Cases 2 and 3)
                
A 25 percent chance of inheriting two hemoglobin S genes: This child has sickle cell disease. (Case 4)
                
It is important to keep in mind that each time this couple has a child, the chances of that child having sickle cell disease remain the same. In other words, if the first-born child has sickle cell disease, there is still a 25 percent chance that the second child will also have the disease. Both boys and girls can inherit sickle cell trait, sickle cell disease, or normal hemoglobin.
                
If a person wants to know if he or she carries a sickle hemoglobin gene, a doctor can order a blood test to find out.

Question: What causes Polycythemia Vera ?
Answer: Primary Polycythemia
                
Polycythemia vera (PV) also is known as primary polycythemia. A mutation, or change, in the body's JAK2 gene is the main cause of PV. The JAK2 gene makes a protein that helps the body produce blood cells.
                
What causes the change in the JAK2 gene isn't known. PV generally isn't inheritedthat is, passed from parents to children through genes. However, in some families, the JAK2 gene may have a tendency to mutate. Other, unknown genetic factors also may play a role in causing PV.
                
Secondary Polycythemia
                
Another type of polycythemia, called secondary polycythemia, isn't related to the JAK2 gene. Long-term exposure to low oxygen levels causes secondary polycythemia.
                
A lack of oxygen over a long period can cause your body to make more of the hormone erythropoietin (EPO). High levels of EPO can prompt your body to make more red blood cells than normal. This leads to thicker blood, as seen in PV.
                
People who have severe heart or lung disease may develop secondary polycythemia. People who smoke, spend long hours at high altitudes, or are exposed to high levels of carbon monoxide where they work or live also are at risk.
                
For example, working in an underground parking garage or living in a home with a poorly vented fireplace or furnace can raise your risk for secondary polycythemia.
                
Rarely, tumors can make and release EPO, or certain blood problems can cause the body to make more EPO.
                
Sometimes doctors can cure secondary polycythemiait depends on whether the underlying cause can be stopped, controlled, or cured.

Question: What causes High Blood Cholesterol ?
Answer: Many factors can affect the cholesterol levels in your blood. You can control some factors, but not others.
                
Factors You Can Control
                
Diet
                
Cholesterol is found in foods that come from animal sources, such as egg yolks, meat, and cheese. Some foods have fats that raise your cholesterol level.
                
For example, saturated fat raises your low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol level more than anything else in your diet. Saturated fat is found in some meats, dairy products, chocolate, baked goods, and deep-fried and processed foods.
                
Trans fatty acids (trans fats) raise your LDL cholesterol and lower your high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Trans fats are made when hydrogen is added to vegetable oil to harden it. Trans fats are found in some fried and processed foods.
                
Limiting foods with cholesterol, saturated fat, and trans fats can help you control your cholesterol levels.
                
Physical Activity and Weight
                
Lack of physical activity can lead to weight gain. Being overweight tends to raise your LDL level, lower your HDL level, and increase your total cholesterol level. (Total cholesterol is a measure of the total amount of cholesterol in your blood, including LDL and HDL.)
                
Routine physical activity can help you lose weight and lower your LDL cholesterol. Being physically active also can help you raise your HDL cholesterol level.
                
Factors You Cant Control
                
Heredity
                
High blood cholesterol can run in families. An inherited condition called familial hypercholesterolemia causes very high LDL cholesterol. (Inherited means the condition is passed from parents to children through genes.) This condition begins at birth, and it may cause a heart attack at an early age.
                
Age and Sex
                
Starting at puberty, men often have lower levels of HDL cholesterol than women. As women and men age, their LDL cholesterol levels often rise. Before age 55, women usually have lower LDL cholesterol levels than men. However, afterage 55, women can have higher LDL levels than men.

Question: What causes Heart Valve Disease ?
Answer: Heart conditions and other disorders, age-related changes, rheumatic fever, or infections can cause acquired heart valve disease. These factors change the shape or flexibility of once-normal heart valves.
                
The cause of congenital heart valve disease isnt known. It occurs before birth as the heart is forming. Congenital heart valve disease can occur alone or with other types of congenital heartdefects.
                
Heart Conditions and Other Disorders
                
Certain conditions can stretch and distort the heart valves. These conditions include:
                
Advanced high blood pressure and heart failure, thiscan enlarge the heart or the main arteries.
                
Atherosclerosis in the aorta. Atherosclerosis is a condition in which a waxy substance called plaque builds up inside the arteries. The aorta is the main artery that carries oxygen-rich blood to the body.
                
Damage and scar tissue due to a heart attack or injury to the heart.
                
Rheumatic Fever
                
Untreated strep throat or other infections with strep bacteria that progress to rheumatic fever can cause heart valve disease.
                
When the body tries to fight the strep infection, one or more heart valves may be damaged or scarred in the process. The aortic and mitral valves most often are affected. Symptoms of heart valve damage often dont appear until many years after recovery from rheumatic fever.
                
Today, most people who have strep infections are treated with antibiotics before rheumatic fever occurs. If you have strep throat, take all of the antibiotics your doctor prescribes, even if you feel better before the medicine is gone.
                
Heart valve disease caused by rheumatic fever mainly affects older adults who had strep infections before antibiotics were available. It also affects people from developing countries, where rheumatic fever is more common.
                
Infections
                
Common germs that enter the bloodstream and get carried to the heart can sometimes infect the inner surface of the heart, including the heart valves. This rare but serious infection is called infective endocarditis.
                
The germs can enter the bloodstream through needles, syringes, or other medical devices and through breaks in the skin or gums. Often, the bodys defenses fight off the germs and no infection occurs. Sometimes these defenses fail, which leads to infective endocarditis.
                
Infective endocarditis can develop in people who already have abnormal blood flow through a heart valve as the result of congenital or acquired heart valve disease. The abnormal blood flow causes blood clots to form on the surface of the valve. The blood clots make it easier for germs to attach to and infect the valve.
                
Infective endocarditis can worsen existing heart valve disease.
                
Other Conditions and Factors Linked to Heart Valve Disease
                
Many other conditions and factors are linked to heart valve disease. However, the role they play in causing heart valve disease often isnt clear.
                
Autoimmune disorders. Autoimmune disorders, such as lupus, can affect the aortic and mitral valves.
                
Carcinoid syndrome. Tumors in the digestive tract that spread to the liver or lymph nodes can affect the tricuspid and pulmonary valves.
                
Diet medicines. The use of fenfluramine and phentermine (fen-phen) sometimes has been linked to heart valve problems. These problems typically stabilize or improve after the medicine is stopped.
                
Marfan syndrome. Congenital disorders, such as Marfan syndrome and other connective tissue disorders, can affect the heart valves.
                
Metabolic disorders. Relatively uncommon diseases (such as Fabry disease) and other metabolic disorders (such as high blood cholesterol) can affect the heart valves.
                
Radiation therapy. Radiation therapy to the chest area can cause heart valve disease. This therapy is used to treat cancer. Heart valve disease due to radiation therapy may not cause symptoms until years after the therapy.

Question: What causes Diabetic Heart Disease ?
Answer: At least four complex processes, alone or combined, can lead to diabetic heart disease (DHD). They include coronary atherosclerosis; metabolic syndrome; insulin resistance in people who have type 2 diabetes; and the interaction of coronary heart disease (CHD), high blood pressure, and diabetes.
                
Researchers continue to study these processes because all of the details aren't yet known.
                
Coronary Atherosclerosis
                
Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up inside the arteries. The exact cause of atherosclerosis isn't known. However, studies show that it is a slow, complex disease that may start in childhood. The disease develops faster as you age.
                
Coronary atherosclerosis may start when certain factors damage the inner layers of the coronary (heart) arteries. These factors include:
                
Smoking
                
High amounts of certain fats and cholesterol in the blood
                
High blood pressure
                
High amounts of sugar in the blood due to insulin resistance or diabetes
                
Plaque may begin to build up where the arteries are damaged. Over time, plaque hardens and narrows the arteries. This reduces the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your heart muscle.
                
Eventually, an area of plaque can rupture (break open). When this happens, blood cell fragments called platelets (PLATE-lets) stick to the site of the injury. They may clump together to form blood clots.
                
Blood clots narrow the coronary arteries even more. This limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your heart and may worsen angina (chest pain) or cause a heart attack.
                
Metabolic Syndrome
                
Metabolic syndrome is the name for a group of risk factors that raises your risk of both CHD and type 2 diabetes.
                
If you have three or more of the five metabolic risk factors, you have metabolic syndrome. The risk factors are:
                
A large waistline (a waist measurement of 35 inches or more for women and 40 inches or more for men).
                
A high triglyceride (tri-GLIH-seh-ride) level (or youre on medicine to treat high triglycerides). Triglycerides are a type of fat found in the blood.
                
A low HDL cholesterol level (or you're on medicine to treat low HDL cholesterol). HDL sometimes is called "good" cholesterol. This is because it helps remove cholesterol from your arteries.
                
High blood pressure (or youre on medicine to treat high blood pressure).
                
A high fasting blood sugar level (or you're on medicine to treat high blood sugar).
                
It's unclear whether these risk factors have a common cause or are mainly related by their combined effects on the heart.
                
Obesity seems to set the stage for metabolic syndrome. Obesity can cause harmful changes in body fats and how the body uses insulin.
                
Chronic (ongoing) inflammation also may occur in people who have metabolic syndrome. Inflammation is the body's response to illness or injury. It may raise your risk of CHD and heart attack. Inflammation also may contribute to or worsen metabolic syndrome.
                
Research is ongoing to learn more about metabolic syndrome and how metabolic risk factors interact.
                
Insulin Resistance in People Who Have Type 2 Diabetes
                
Type 2 diabetes usually begins with insulin resistance. Insulin resistance means that the body can't properly use the insulin it makes.
                
People who have type 2 diabetes and insulin resistance have higher levels of substances in the blood that cause blood clots. Blood clots can block the coronary arteries and cause a heart attack or even death.
                
The Interaction of Coronary Heart Disease, High Blood Pressure, and Diabetes
                
Each of these risk factors alone can damage the heart. CHD reduces the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your heart muscle. High blood pressure and diabetes may cause harmful changes in the structure and function of the heart.
                
Having CHD, high blood pressure, and diabetes is even more harmful to the heart. Together, these conditions can severely damage the heart muscle. As a result, the heart has to work harder than normal. Over time, the heart weakens and isnt able to pump enough blood to meet the bodys needs. This condition is called heart failure.
                
As the heart weakens, the body may release proteins and other substances into the blood. These proteins and substances also can harm the heart and worsen heart failure.

Question: What causes Endocarditis ?
Answer: Infective endocarditis (IE) occurs if bacteria, fungi, or other germs invade your bloodstream and attach to abnormal areas of your heart. Certain factors increase the risk of this happening.
                
A common underlying factor in IE is a structural heart defect, especially faulty heart valves. Usually your immune system will kill germs in your bloodstream. However, if your heart has a rough lining or abnormal valves, the invading germs can attach and multiply in the heart.
                
Other factors also can play a role in causing IE. Common activities, such as brushing your teeth or having certain dental procedures, can allow bacteria to enter your bloodstream. This is even more likely to happen if your teeth and gums are in poor condition.
                
Having a catheter (tube) or another medical device inserted through your skin, especially for long periods, also can allow bacteria to enter your bloodstream. People who use intravenous (IV) drugs also are at risk for IE because of the germs on needles and syringes.
                
Bacteria also may spread to the blood and heart from infections in other parts of the body, such as the gut, skin, or genitals.
                
Endocarditis Complications
                
As the bacteria or other germs multiply in your heart, they form clumps with other cells and matter found in the blood. These clumps are called vegetations (vej-eh-TA-shuns).
                
As IE worsens, pieces of the vegetations can break off and travel to almost any other organ or tissue in the body. There, the pieces can block blood flow or cause a new infection. As a result, IE can cause a range of complications.
                
Heart Complications
                
Heart problems are the most common complication of IE. They occur in one-third to one-half of all people who have the infection. These problems may include a new heart murmur, heart failure, heart valve damage, heart block, or, rarely, a heart attack.
                
Central Nervous System Complications
                
These complications occur in as many as 20 to 40 percent of people who have IE. Central nervous system complications most often occur when bits of the vegetation, called emboli (EM-bo-li), break away and lodge in the brain.
                
The emboli can cause local infections called brain abscesses. Or, they can cause a more widespread brain infection called meningitis (men-in-JI-tis).
                
Emboli also can cause strokes or seizures. This happens if they block blood vessels or affect the brain's electrical signals. These complications can cause long-term damage to the brain and may even be fatal.
                
Complications in Other Organs
                
IE also can affect other organs in the body, such as the lungs, kidneys, and spleen.
                
Lungs. The lungs are especially at risk when IE affects the right side of the heart. This is called right-sided infective endocarditis.
                
A vegetation or blood clot going to the lungs can cause a pulmonary embolism (PE) and lung damage. A PE is a sudden blockage in a lung artery.
                
Other lung complications include pneumonia and a buildup of fluid or pus around the lungs.
                
Kidneys. IE can cause kidney abscesses and kidney damage. The infection also can inflame the internal filtering structures of the kidneys.
                
Signs and symptoms of kidney complications include back or side pain, blood in the urine, or a change in the color or amount of urine. In some cases, IE can cause kidney failure.
                
Spleen. The spleen is an organ located in the left upper part of the abdomen near the stomach. In some people who have IE, the spleen enlarges (especially in people who have long-term IE). Sometimes emboli also can damage the spleen.
                
Signs and symptoms of spleen problems include pain or discomfort in the upper left abdomen and/or left shoulder, a feeling of fullness or the inability to eat large meals, and hiccups.

Question: What causes Hemophilia ?
Answer: A defect in one of the genes that determines how the body makes blood clotting factor VIII or IX causes hemophilia. These genes are located on the X chromosomes (KRO-muh-somz).
                
Chromosomes come in pairs. Females have two X chromosomes, while males have one X and one Y chromosome. Only the X chromosome carries the genes related to clotting factors.
                
A male who has a hemophilia gene on his X chromosome will have hemophilia. When a female has a hemophilia gene on only one of her X chromosomes, she is a "hemophilia carrier and can pass the gene to her children. Sometimes carriers have low levels of clotting factor and have symptoms of hemophilia, including bleeding. Clotting factors are proteins in the blood that work together with platelets to stop or control bleeding.
                
Very rarely, a girl may be born with a very low clotting factor level and have a greater risk for bleeding, similar to boys who have hemophilia and very low levels of clotting factor. There are several hereditary and genetic causes of this much rarer form of hemophilia in females.
                
Some males who have the disorder are born to mothers who aren't carriers. In these cases, a mutation (random change) occurs in the gene as it is passed to the child.
                
Below are two examples of how the hemophilia gene is inherited.
                
Inheritance Pattern for HemophiliaExample 1
                

                
Each daughter has a 50 percent chance of inheriting the hemophilia gene from her mother and being a carrier. Each son has a 50 percent chance of inheriting the hemophilia gene from his mother and having hemophilia.
                
Inheritance Pattern for HemophiliaExample 2
                

                
Each daughter will inherit the hemophilia gene from her father and be a carrier. None of the sons will inherit the hemophilia gene from their father; thus, none will have hemophilia.

Question: What causes Pleurisy and Other Pleural Disorders ?
Answer: Pleurisy
                
Many conditions can cause pleurisy. Viral infections are likely the most common cause. Other causes of pleurisy include:
                
Bacterial infections, such as pneumonia (nu-MO-ne-ah) and tuberculosis, and infections from fungi or parasites
                
Pulmonary embolism, a blood clot that travels through the blood vessels to the lungs
                
Autoimmune disorders, such as lupus and rheumatoid arthritis
                
Cancer, such as lung cancer, lymphoma, and mesothelioma (MEZ-o-thee-lee-O-ma)
                
Chest and heart surgery, especially coronary artery bypass grafting
                
Lung diseases, such as LAM (lymphangioleiomyomatosis) or asbestosis (as-bes-TO-sis)
                
Inflammatory bowel disease
                
Familial Mediterranean fever, an inherited condition that often causes fever and swelling in the abdomen or lungs
                
Other causes of pleurisy include chest injuries, pancreatitis (an inflamed pancreas), and reactions to certain medicines. Reactions to certain medicines can cause a condition similar to lupus. These medicines include procainamide, hydralazine, and isoniazid.
                
Sometimes doctors can't find the cause of pleurisy.
                
Pneumothorax
                
Lung diseases or acute lung injury can make it more likely that you will develop a pneumothorax (a buildup of air or gas in the pleural space). Such lung diseases may include COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), tuberculosis, and LAM.
                
Surgery or a chest injury also may cause a pneumothorax.
                
You can develop a pneumothorax without having a recognized lung disease or chest injury. This is called a spontaneous pneumothorax. Smoking increases your risk of spontaneous pneumothorax. Having a family history of the condition also increases your risk.
                
Pleural Effusion
                
The most common cause of a pleural effusion (a buildup of fluid in the pleural space) is heart failure. Lung cancer, LAM, pneumonia, tuberculosis, and other lung infections also can lead to a pleural effusion.
                
Sometimes kidney or liver disease can cause fluid to build up in the pleural space. Asbestosis, sarcoidosis (sar-koy-DO-sis), and reactions to some medicines also can lead to a pleural effusion.
                
Hemothorax
                
An injury to the chest, chest or heart surgery, or lung or pleural cancer can cause a hemothorax (buildup of blood in the pleural space).
                
A hemothorax also can be a complication of an infection (for example, pneumonia), tuberculosis, or a spontaneous pneumothorax.

Question: What causes Thrombocythemia and Thrombocytosis ?
Answer: Primary Thrombocythemia
                
In this condition, faulty stem cells in the bone marrow make too many platelets. What causes this to happen usually isn't known. When this process occurs without other blood cell disorders, it's called essential thrombocythemia.
                
A rare form of thrombocythemia is inherited. ("Inherited" means the condition is passed from parents to children through the genes.) In some cases, a genetic mutation may cause the condition.
                
In addition to the bone marrow making too many platelets, the platelets also are abnormal in primary thrombocythemia. They may form blood clots or, surprisingly, cause bleeding when they don't work well.
                
Bleeding also can occur because of a condition that develops called von Willebrand disease. This condition affects the blood clotting process.
                
After many years, scarring of the bone marrow can occur.
                
Secondary Thrombocytosis
                
This condition occurs if another disease, condition, or outside factor causes the platelet count to rise. For example, 35 percent of people who have high platelet counts also have cancermostly lung, gastrointestinal, breast, ovarian, and lymphoma. Sometimes a high platelet count is the first sign of cancer.
                
Other conditions or factors that can cause a high platelet count are:
                
Iron-deficiency anemia (uh-NEE-me-uh)
                
Hemolytic (HEE-moh-lit-ick) anemia
                
Absence of a spleen (after surgery to remove the organ)
                
Inflammatory or infectious diseases, such as connective tissue disorders, inflammatory bowel disease, and tuberculosis
                
Reactions to medicine
                
Some conditions can lead to a high platelet count that lasts for only a short time. Examples of such conditions include:
                
Recovery from serious blood loss
                
Recovery from a very low platelet count caused by excessive alcohol use and lack of vitamin B12 or folate
                
Acute (short-term) infection or inflammation
                
Response to physical activity
                
Although the platelet count is high in secondary thrombocytosis, the platelets are normal (unlike in primary thrombocythemia). Thus, people who have secondary thrombocytosis have a lower risk of blood clots and bleeding.

Question: What causes Hemochromatosis ?
Answer: The two types of hemochromatosis are primary and secondary. Each type has a different cause.
                
Primary Hemochromatosis
                
Primary hemochromatosis is caused by a defect in the genes that control how much iron you absorb from food. This form of the disease sometimes is called hereditary or classical hemochromatosis. Primary hemochromatosis is more common than the secondary form of the disease.
                
The genes usually involved in primary hemochromatosis are called HFE genes. Faulty HFE genes cause the body to absorb too much iron. If you inherit two copies of the faulty HFE gene (one from each parent), you're at risk for iron overload and signs and symptoms of hemochromatosis.
                
If you inherit one faulty HFE gene and one normal HFE gene, you're a hemochromatosis "carrier." Carriers usually don't develop the disease. However, they can pass the faulty gene on to their children. Estimates suggest that about 1 in 10 people in the United States are hemochromatosis carriers.
                
If two parents are carriers of the faulty HFE gene, then each of their children has a 1 in 4 chance of inheriting two faulty HFE genes.
                
Although less common, other faulty genes also can cause hemochromatosis. Researchers continue to study what changes to normal genes may cause the disease.
                
Secondary Hemochromatosis
                
Secondary hemochromatosis usually is the result of another disease or condition that causes iron overload. Examples of such diseases and conditions include:
                
Certain types of anemia, such as thalassemias and sideroblastic anemia
                
Atransferrinemia and aceruloplasminemiaboth are rare, inherited diseases
                
Chronic liver diseases, such as chronic hepatitis C infection, alcoholic liver disease, or nonalcoholic steatohepatitis
                
Other factors also can cause secondary hemochromatosis, including:
                
Blood transfusions
                
Oral iron pills or iron injections, with or without very high vitamin C intake (vitamin C helps your body absorb iron)
                
Long-term kidney dialysis

Question: What causes Cough ?
Answer: Coughing occurs when the nerve endings in your airways become irritated. Certain irritants and allergens, medical conditions, and medicines can irritate these nerve endings.
                
Irritants and Allergens
                
An irritant is something you're sensitive to. For example, smoking or inhaling secondhand smoke can irritate your lungs. Smoking also can lead to medical conditions that can cause a cough. Other irritants include air pollution, paint fumes, or scented products like perfumes or air fresheners.
                
An allergen is something you're allergic to, such as dust, animal dander, mold, or pollens from trees, grasses, and flowers.
                
Coughing helps clear your airways of irritants and allergens. This helps prevent infections.
                
Medical Conditions
                
Many medical conditions can cause acute, subacute, or chronic cough.
                
Common causes of an acute cough are a common cold or other upper respiratory infections. Examples of other upper respiratory infections include the flu, pneumonia, and whooping cough. An acute cough lasts less than 3 weeks.
                
A lingering cough that remains after a cold or other respiratory infection is gone often is called a subacute cough. A subacute cough lasts 3 to 8 weeks.
                
Common causes of a chronic cough are upper airway cough syndrome (UACS), asthma, and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). A chronic cough lasts more than 8 weeks.
                
"UACS" is a term used to describe conditions that inflame the upper airways and cause a cough. Examples include sinus infections and allergies. These conditions can cause mucus (a slimy substance) to run down your throat from the back of your nose. This is called postnasal drip.
                
Asthma is a long-term lung disease that inflames and narrows the airways. GERD is a condition in which acid from your stomach backs up into your throat.
                
Other conditions that can cause a chronic cough include:
                
Respiratory infections. A cough from an upper respiratory infection can develop into a chronic cough.
                
Chronic bronchitis (bron-KI-tis). This condition occurs if the lining of the airways is constantly irritated and inflamed. Smoking is the main cause of chronic bronchitis.
                
Bronchiectasis (brong-ke-EK-tah-sis). This is a condition in which damage to the airways causes them to widen and become flabby and scarred. This prevents the airways from properly moving mucus out of your lungs. An infection or other condition that injures the walls of the airways usually causes bronchiectasis.
                
COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). COPD is a disease that prevents enough air from flowing in and out of the airways.
                
Lung cancer. In rare cases, a chronic cough is due to lung cancer. Most people who develop lung cancer smoke or used to smoke.
                
Heart failure. Heart failure is a condition in which the heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs. Fluid can build up in the body and lead to many symptoms. If fluid builds up in the lungs, it can cause a chronic cough.
                
Medicines
                
Certain medicines can cause a chronic cough. Examples of these medicines are ACE inhibitors and beta blockers. ACE inhibitors are used to treat high blood pressure (HBP). Beta blockers are used to treat HBP, migraine headaches, and glaucoma.

Question: What causes Pulmonary Embolism ?
Answer: Major Causes
                
Pulmonary embolism (PE) usually begins as a blood clot in a deep vein of the leg. This condition is called deep vein thrombosis. The clot can break free, travel through the bloodstream to the lungs, and block an artery.
                
The animation below shows how a blood clot from a deep vein in the leg can travel to the lungs, causing pulmonary embolism. Click the "start" button to play the animation. Written and spoken explanations are provided with each frame. Use the buttons in the lower right corner to pause, restart, or replay the animation, or use the scroll bar below the buttons to move through the frames.
                

                

                
Blood clots can form in the deep veins of the legs if blood flow is restricted and slows down. This can happen if you don't move around for long periods, such as:
                
After some types of surgery
                
During a long trip in a car or airplane
                
If you must stay in bed for an extended time
                
Blood clots are more likely to develop in veins damaged from surgery or injured in other ways.
                
Other Causes
                
Rarely, an air bubble, part of a tumor, or other tissue travels to the lungs and causes PE. Also, if a large bone in the body (such as the thigh bone) breaks, fat from the bone marrow can travel through the blood. If the fat reaches the lungs, it can cause PE

Question: What causes Aneurysm ?
Answer: The force of blood pushing against the walls of an artery combined with damage or injury to the arterys walls can cause an aneurysm.
                
Many conditions and factors can damage and weaken the walls of the aorta and cause aortic aneurysms. Examples include aging, smoking, high blood pressure, and atherosclerosis (ath-er-o-skler-O-sis). Atherosclerosis is the hardening and narrowing of the arteries due to the buildup of a waxy substance called plaque (plak).
                
Rarely, infectionssuch as untreated syphilis (a sexually transmitted infection)can cause aortic aneurysms. Aortic aneurysms also can occur as a result of diseases that inflame the blood vessels, such as vasculitis (vas-kyu-LI-tis).
                
A family history of aneurysms also may play a role in causing aortic aneurysms.
                
In addition to the factors above, certain genetic conditions may cause thoracic aortic aneurysms (TAAs). Examples of these conditions include Marfan syndrome, Loeys-Dietz syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (the vascular type), and Turner syndrome.
                
These genetic conditions can weaken the bodys connective tissues and damage the aorta. People who have these conditions tend to develop aneurysms at a younger age than other people. Theyre also at higher risk for rupture and dissection.
                
Trauma, such as a car accident, also can damage the walls of the aorta and lead to TAAs.
                
Researchers continue to look for other causes of aortic aneurysms. For example, theyre looking for genetic mutations (changes in the genes) that may contribute to or cause aneurysms.

Question: What causes Pulmonary Hypertension ?
Answer: Pulmonary hypertension (PH) begins with inflammation and changes in the cells that line your pulmonary arteries. Other factors also can affect the pulmonary arteries and cause PH. For example, the condition may develop if:
                
The walls of the arteries tighten.
                
The walls of the arteries are stiff at birth or become stiff from an overgrowth of cells.
                
Blood clots form in the arteries.
                
These changes make it hard for your heart to push blood through your pulmonary arteries and into your lungs. Thus, the pressure in the arteries rises, causing PH.
                
Many factors can contribute to the process that leads to the different types of PH.
                
Group 1 pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) may have no known cause, or the condition may be inherited. ("Inherited" means the condition is passed from parents to children through genes.)
                
Some diseases and conditions also can cause group 1 PAH. Examples include HIV infection, congenital heart disease, and sickle cell disease. Also, the use of street drugs (such as cocaine) and certain diet medicines can lead to PAH.
                
Many diseases and conditions can cause groups 2 through 5 PH (often called secondary PH), including:
                
Mitral valve disease
                
Lung diseases, such as COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease)
                
Sleep apnea
                
Sarcoidosis
                
For more information about the types of PH and the diseases, conditions, and factors that can cause them, go to "Types of Pulmonary Hypertension."

Question: What causes Deep Vein Thrombosis ?
Answer: Blood clots can form in your body's deep veins if:
                
A vein's inner lining is damaged. Injuries caused by physical, chemical, or biological factors can damage the veins. Such factors include surgery, serious injuries, inflammation, and immune responses.
                
Blood flow is sluggish or slow. Lack of motion can cause sluggish or slow blood flow. This may occur after surgery, if you're ill and in bed for a long time, or if you're traveling for a long time.
                
Your blood is thicker or more likely to clot than normal. Some inherited conditions (such as factor V Leiden) increase the risk of blood clotting. Hormone therapy or birth control pills also can increase the risk of clotting.

Question: What causes Heart Palpitations ?
Answer: Many things can cause palpitations. You may have these feelings even when your heart is beating normally or somewhat faster than normal.
                
Most palpitations are harmless and often go away on their own. However, some palpitations are signs of a heart problem. Sometimes the cause of palpitations can't be found.
                
If you start having palpitations, see your doctor to have them checked.
                
Causes Not Related to Heart Problems
                
Strong Emotions
                
You may feel your heart pounding or racing during anxiety, fear, or stress. You also may have these feelings if you're having a panic attack.
                
Vigorous Physical Activity
                
Intense activity can make your heart feel like its beating too hard or too fast, even though it's working normally. Intense activity also can cause occasional premature (extra) heartbeats.
                
Medical Conditions
                
Some medical conditions can cause palpitations. These conditions can make the heart beat faster or stronger than usual. They also can cause premature (extra) heartbeats.
                
Examples of these medical conditions include:
                
An overactive thyroid
                
A low blood sugar level
                
Anemia
                
Some types of low blood pressure
                
Fever
                
Dehydration (not enough fluid in the body)
                
Hormonal Changes
                
The hormonal changes that happen during pregnancy, menstruation, and the perimenopausal period may cause palpitations. The palpitations will likely improve or go away as these conditions go away or change.
                
Some palpitations that occur during pregnancy may be due to anemia.
                
Medicines and Stimulants
                
Many medicines can trigger palpitations because they can make the heart beat faster or stronger than usual. Medicines also can cause premature (extra) heartbeats.
                
Examples of these medicines include:
                
Inhaled asthma medicines.
                
Medicines to treat an underactive thyroid. Taking too much of these medicines can cause an overactive thyroid and lead to palpitations.
                
Medicines to prevent arrhythmias. Medicines used to treat irregular heart rhythms can sometimes cause other irregular heart rhythms.
                
Over-the-counter medicines that act as stimulants also may cause palpitations. These include decongestants (found in cough and cold medicines) and some herbal and nutritional supplements.
                
Caffeine, nicotine (found in tobacco), alcohol, and illegal drugs (such as cocaine and amphetamines) also can cause palpitations.
                
Causes Related to Heart Problems
                
Some palpitations are symptoms of arrhythmias. Arrhythmias are problems with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat. However, less than half of the people who have palpitations have arrhythmias.
                
During an arrhythmia, the heart can beat too fast, too slow, or with an irregular rhythm. An arrhythmia happens if some part of the heart's electrical system doesn't work as it should.
                
Palpitations are more likely to be related to an arrhythmia if you:
                
Have had a heart attack or are at risk for one.
                
Have coronary heart disease (CHD) or risk factors for CHD.
                
Have other heart problems, such as heart failure, heart valve disease, or heart muscle disease.
                
Have abnormal electrolyte levels. Electrolytes are minerals, such as potassium and sodium, found in blood and body fluids. They're vital for normal health and functioning of the body.

Question: What causes Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia ?
Answer: Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) develops as a result of an infant's lungs becoming irritated or inflamed.
                
The lungs of premature infants are fragile and often aren't fully developed. They can easily be irritated or injured within hours or days of birth. Many factors can damage premature infants' lungs.
                
Ventilation
                
Newborns who have breathing problems or can't breathe on their own may need ventilator support. Ventilators are machines that use pressure to blow air into the airways and lungs.
                
Although ventilator support can help premature infants survive, the machine's pressure might irritate and harm the babies' lungs. For this reason, doctors only recommend ventilator support when necessary.
                
High Levels of Oxygen
                
Newborns who have breathing problems might need oxygen therapy (oxygen given through nasal prongs, a mask, or a breathing tube). This treatment helps the infants' organs get enough oxygen to work well.
                
However, high levels of oxygen can inflame the lining of the lungs and injure the airways. Also, high levels of oxygen can slow lung development in premature infants.
                
Infections
                
Infections can inflame the lungs. As a result, the airways narrow, which makes it harder for premature infants to breathe. Lung infections also increase the babies' need for extra oxygen and breathing support.
                
Heredity
                
Studies show that heredity may play a role in causing BPD. More studies are needed to confirm this finding.

Question: What causes Cardiomyopathy ?
Answer: Cardiomyopathy can be acquired or inherited. Acquired means you arent born with the disease, but you develop it due to another disease, condition, or factor.
                
Inherited means your parents passed the gene for the disease on to you. Researchers continue to look for the genetic links to cardiomyopathy and to explore how these links cause or contribute to the various types of the disease.
                
Many times, the cause of cardiomyopathy isnt known. This often is the case when the disease occurs in children.
                
Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy
                
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy usually is inherited. Its caused by a mutation or change in some of the genes in heart muscle proteins. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy also can develop over time because of high blood pressure, aging, or other diseases, such as diabetes or thyroid disease. Sometimes the cause of the disease isnt known.
                
Dilated Cardiomyopathy
                
The cause of dilated cardiomyopathy often isnt known. About one-third of the people who have dilated cardiomyopathy inherit it from their parents.
                
Certain diseases, conditions, and substances also can cause the disease, such as:
                
Alcohol, especially if you also have a poor diet
                
Certain toxins, such as poisons and heavy metals
                
Complications during the last months of pregnancy
                
Coronary heart disease, heart attack, high blood pressure, diabetes, thyroid disease, viral hepatitis, and HIV
                
Illegal drugs, such as cocaine and amphetamines, and some medicines used to treat cancer
                
Infections, especially viral infections that inflame the heart muscle
                
Restrictive Cardiomyopathy
                
Certain diseases, conditions, and factors can cause restrictive cardiomyopathy, including:
                
Amyloidosis: A disease in which abnormal proteins build up in the bodys organs, including the heart
                
Connective tissue disorders
                
Hemochromatosis: A disease in which too much iron builds up in the body. The extra iron is toxic to the body and can damage the organs, including the heart.
                
Sarcoidosis: A disease that causes inflammation and can affect various organs in the body. Researchers believe that an abnormal immune response may cause sarcoidosis. This abnormal response causes tiny lumps of cells to form in the bodys organs, including the heart.
                
Some cancer treatments, such as radiation and chemotherapy
                
Arrhythmogenic Right Ventricular Dysplasia
                
Researchers think that arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia is an inherited disease.

Question: What causes Aplastic Anemia ?
Answer: Damage to the bone marrow's stem cells causes aplastic anemia. When stem cells are damaged, they don't grow into healthy blood cells.
                
The cause of the damage can be acquired or inherited. "Acquired" means you aren't born with the condition, but you develop it. "Inherited" means your parents passed the gene for the condition on to you.
                
Acquired aplastic anemia is more common, and sometimes it's only temporary. Inherited aplastic anemia is rare.
                
In many people who have aplastic anemia, the cause is unknown. Some research suggests that stem cell damage may occur because the body's immune system attacks its own cells by mistake.
                
Acquired Causes
                
Many diseases, conditions, and factors can cause aplastic anemia, including:
                
Toxins, such as pesticides, arsenic, and benzene.
                
Radiation and chemotherapy (treatments for cancer).
                
Medicines, such as chloramphenicol (an antibiotic rarely used in the United States).
                
Infectious diseases, such as hepatitis, Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus (si-to-MEG-ah-lo-VI-rus), parvovirus B19, and HIV.
                
Autoimmune disorders, such as lupus and rheumatoid arthritis.
                
Pregnancy. (Aplastic anemia that occurs during pregnancy often goes away after delivery.)
                
Sometimes, cancer from another part of the body can spread to the bone and cause aplastic anemia.
                
Inherited Causes
                
Certain inherited conditions can damage the stem cells and lead to aplastic anemia. Examples include Fanconi anemia, Shwachman-Diamond syndrome, dyskeratosis (DIS-ker-ah-TO-sis) congenita, and Diamond-Blackfan anemia.

Question: What causes Iron-Deficiency Anemia ?
Answer: Not having enough iron in your body causes iron-deficiency anemia. Lack of iron usually is due to blood loss, poor diet, or an inability to absorb enough iron from food.
                
Blood Loss
                
When you lose blood, you lose iron. If you don't have enough iron stored in your body to make up for the lost iron, you'll develop iron-deficiency anemia.
                
In women, long or heavy menstrual periods or bleeding fibroids in the uterus may cause low iron levels. Blood loss that occurs during childbirth is another cause of low iron levels in women.
                
Internal bleeding (bleeding inside the body) also may lead to iron-deficiency anemia. This type of blood loss isn't always obvious, and it may occur slowly. Some causes of internal bleeding are:
                
A bleeding ulcer, colon polyp, or colon cancer
                
Regular use of aspirin or other pain medicines, such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (for example, ibuprofen and naproxen)
                
Urinary tract bleeding
                
Blood loss from severe injuries, surgery, or frequent blood drawings also can cause iron-deficiency anemia.
                
Poor Diet
                
The best sources of iron are meat, poultry, fish, and iron-fortified foods (foods that have iron added). If you don't eat these foods regularly, or if you don't take an iron supplement, you're more likely to develop iron-deficiency anemia.
                
Vegetarian diets can provide enough iron if you eat the right foods. For example, good nonmeat sources of iron include iron-fortified breads and cereals, beans, tofu, dried fruits, and spinach and other dark green leafy vegetables.
                
During some stages of life, such as pregnancy and childhood, it may be hard to get enough iron in your diet. This is because your need for iron increases during these times of growth and development.
                
Inability To Absorb Enough Iron
                
Even if you have enough iron in your diet, your body may not be able to absorb it. This can happen if you have intestinal surgery (such as gastric bypass) or a disease of the intestine (such as Crohn's disease or celiac disease).
                
Prescription medicines that reduce acid in the stomach also can interfere with iron absorption.

Question: What causes Antiphospholipid Antibody Syndrome ?
Answer: Antiphospholipid antibody syndrome (APS) occurs if the body's immune system makes antibodies (proteins) that attack phospholipids.
                
Phospholipids are a type of fat found in all living cells and cell membranes, including blood cells and the lining of blood vessels. What causes the immune system to make antibodies against phospholipids isn't known.
                
APS causes unwanted blood clots to form in the body's arteries and veins. Usually, blood clotting is a normal bodily process. It helps seal small cuts or breaks on blood vessel walls. This prevents you from losing too much blood. In APS, however, too much blood clotting can block blood flow and damage the body's organs.
                
Researchers don't know why APS antibodies cause blood clots to form. Some believe that the antibodies damage or affect the inner lining of the blood vessels, which causes blood clots to form. Others believe that the immune system makes antibodies in response to blood clots damaging the blood vessels.

Question: What causes Marfan Syndrome ?
Answer: Marfan syndrome is a genetic disorder. A mutation, or change, in the gene that controls how the body makes fibrillin causes Marfan syndrome. Fibrillin is a protein that plays a major role in your body's connective tissue.
                
Most people who have Marfan syndrome inherit it from their parents. If you have the condition, you have a 50 percent chance of passing the altered gene to each of your children.
                
Sometimes Marfan syndrome isn't inherited. The mutation in the fibrillin gene occurs in the egg or sperm cells. If a child is conceived, the altered gene may be passed on to the child. The risk of that child's brothers or sisters having Marfan syndrome is low.

Question: What causes Respiratory Failure ?
Answer: Diseases and conditions that impair breathing can cause respiratory failure. These disorders may affect the muscles, nerves, bones, or tissues that support breathing, or they may affect the lungs directly.
                
When breathing is impaired, your lungs can't easily move oxygen into your blood and remove carbon dioxide from your blood (gas exchange). This can cause a low oxygen level or high carbon dioxide level, or both, in your blood.
                
Respiratory failure can occur as a result of:
                
Conditions that affect the nerves and muscles that control breathing. Examples include muscular dystrophy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), spinal cord injuries, and stroke.
                
Damage to the tissues and ribs around the lungs. An injury to the chest can cause this damage.
                
Problems with the spine, such as scoliosis (a curve in the spine). This condition can affect the bones and muscles used for breathing.
                
Drug or alcohol overdose. An overdose affects the area of the brain that controls breathing. During an overdose, breathing becomes slow and shallow.
                
Lung diseases and conditions, such as COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), pneumonia, ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome), pulmonary embolism, and cystic fibrosis. These diseases and conditions can affect the flow of air and blood into and out of your lungs. ARDS and pneumonia affect gas exchange in the air sacs.
                
Acute lung injuries. For example, inhaling harmful fumes or smoke can injure your lungs.
                
Normal Lungs and Conditions Causing Respiratory Failure

Question: What causes Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis ?
Answer: Sometimes doctors can find out what is causing pulmonary fibrosis (lung scarring). For example, exposure to environmental pollutants and certain medicines can cause the disease.
                
Environmental pollutants include inorganic dust (silica and hard metal dusts) and organic dust (bacteria and animal proteins).
                
Medicines that are known to cause pulmonary fibrosis in some people include nitrofurantoin (an antibiotic), amiodarone (a heart medicine), methotrexate and bleomycin (both chemotherapy medicines), and many other medicines.
                
In most cases, however, the cause of lung scarring isnt known. These cases are called idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). With IPF, doctors think that something inside or outside of the lungs attacks them again and again over time.
                
These attacks injure the lungs and scar the tissue inside and between the air sacs. This makes it harder for oxygen to pass through the air sac walls into the bloodstream.
                
The following factors may increase your risk of IPF:
                
Cigarette smoking
                
Viral infections, including Epstein-Barr virus (which causes mononucleosis), influenza A virus, hepatitis C virus, HIV, and herpes virus 6
                
Genetics also may play a role in causing IPF. Some families have at least two members who have IPF.
                
Researchers have found that 9 out of 10 people who have IPF also have gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). GERD is a condition in which acid from your stomach backs up into your throat.
                
Some people who have GERD may regularly breathe in tiny drops of acid from their stomachs. The acid can injure their lungs and lead to IPF. More research is needed to confirm this theory.

Question: What causes Stroke ?
Answer: Ischemic Stroke and Transient Ischemic Attack
                
An ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) occurs if an artery that supplies oxygen-rich blood to the brain becomes blocked. Many medical conditions can increase the risk of ischemic stroke or TIA.
                
For example, atherosclerosis (ath-er-o-skler-O-sis) is a disease in which a fatty substance called plaque builds up on the inner walls of the arteries. Plaque hardens and narrows the arteries, which limits the flow of blood to tissues and organs (such as the heart and brain).
                
Plaque in an artery can crack or rupture (break open). Blood platelets (PLATE-lets), which are disc-shaped cell fragments, stick to the site of the plaque injury and clump together to form blood clots. These clots can partly or fully block an artery.
                
Plaque can build up in any artery in the body, including arteries in the heart, brain, and neck. The two main arteries on each side of the neck are called the carotid (ka-ROT-id) arteries. These arteries supply oxygen-rich blood to the brain, face, scalp, and neck.
                
When plaque builds up in the carotid arteries, the condition is called carotid artery disease. Carotid artery disease causes many of the ischemic strokes and TIAs that occur in the United States.
                
An embolic stroke (a type of ischemic stroke) or TIA also can occur if a blood clot or piece of plaque breaks away from the wall of an artery. The clot or plaque can travel through the bloodstream and get stuck in one of the brains arteries. This stops blood flow through the artery and damages brain cells.
                
Heart conditions and blood disorders also can cause blood clots that can lead to a stroke or TIA. For example, atrial fibrillation (A-tre-al fi-bri-LA-shun), or AF, is a common cause of embolic stroke.
                
In AF, the upper chambers of the heart contract in a very fast and irregular way. As a result, some blood pools in the heart. The pooling increases the risk of blood clots forming in the heart chambers.
                
An ischemic stroke or TIA also can occur because of lesions caused by atherosclerosis. These lesions may form in the small arteries of the brain, and they can block blood flow to the brain.
                
Hemorrhagic Stroke
                
Sudden bleeding in the brain can cause a hemorrhagic stroke. The bleeding causes swelling of the brain and increased pressure in the skull. The swelling and pressure damage brain cells and tissues.
                
Examples of conditions that can cause a hemorrhagic stroke include high blood pressure, aneurysms, and arteriovenous (ar-TEER-e-o-VE-nus) malformations (AVMs).
                
"Blood pressure" is the force of blood pushing against the walls of the arteries as the heart pumps blood. If blood pressure rises and stays high over time, it can damage the body in many ways.
                
Aneurysms are balloon-like bulges in an artery that can stretch and burst. AVMs are tangles of faulty arteries and veins that can rupture within the brain. High blood pressure can increase the risk of hemorrhagic stroke in people who have aneurysms or AVMs.

Question: What causes ARDS ?
Answer: Many conditions or factors can directly or indirectly injure the lungs and lead to ARDS. Some common ones are:
                
Sepsis. This is a condition in which bacteria infect the bloodstream.
                
Pneumonia. This is an infection in the lungs.
                
Severe bleeding caused by an injury to the body.
                
An injury to the chest or head, like a severe blow.
                
Breathing in harmful fumes or smoke.
                
Inhaling vomited stomach contents from the mouth.
                
It's not clear why some very sick or seriously injured people develop ARDS and others don't. Researchers are trying to find out why ARDS develops and how to prevent it.

Question: What causes Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis ?
Answer: What causes diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis ? The exact underlying cause of diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) is poorly understood. However, several factors have been associated with an increased risk of developing the condition. For example, conditions that disturb cartilage metabolism (such as diabetes mellitus, acromegaly, or certain inherited connective tissue disorders) may lead to DISH. Long-term use of medications called retinoids (such as isotretinoin) can increase the risk for DISH. Age (being older than age 50) and sex (being male) may also play a role.

Question: What causes Acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis ?
Answer: What causes acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis? In many cases, the cause of acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis is unknown (idiopathic). But sometimes, it can be a sign of an immune system response to one of the following: An upper respiratory tract infection, such as a chest infection or strep throat Blood disorders, especially acute myelogenous leukemia, a cancer of the blood and bone marrow Inflammatory bowel disease, such as ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease Bowel or breast cancer Pregnancy Rheumatoid arthritis An injury at the site where the rash appears, such as an insect bite or needle prick Certain medications, including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)

Question: What causes Danon disease ?
Answer: What causes Danon disease? Danon disease is caused by mutation in the LAMP2 gene. LAMP2 stands for lysosomal-associated membrane protein 2.

Question: What causes Ehlers-Danlos syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Ehlers-Danlos syndrome? Ehlers-Danlos syndrome can be caused by changes (mutations) in several different genes (COL5A1, COL5A2, COL1A1, COL3A1, TNXB, PLOD1, COL1A2, and ADAMTS2). However, the underlying genetic cause is unknown in some families. Mutations in these genes usually alter the structure, production, and/or processing of collagen or proteins that interact with collagen. Collagen provides structure and strength to connective tissues throughout the body. A defect in collagen can weaken connective tissues in the skin, bones, blood vessels, and organs resulting in the features of the disorder.

Question: What causes Autoimmune autonomic ganglionopathy ?
Answer: What causes autoimmune autonomic ganglionopathy? The cause of autoimmune autonomic ganglionopathy is not fully understood. An autoimmune component is presumed, as the body's own immune system damages a receptor in the autonomic ganglia (part of the peripheral autonomic nerve fiber). In one to two-thirds of affected individuals, this condition is associated with high titers of ganglionic acetylcholine receptor antibody (g-AchR antibody).. About 60% of cases follow an infection or other illness.

Question: What causes Thyroglossal tract cyst ?
Answer: Can thyroglossal duct cysts cause weight loss? Weight loss is not commonly cited as a specific symptom of thyroglossal duct cysts, however large cysts can cause difficulty swallowing and breathing. Infected cysts may be tender with associated difficulty in swallowing, loss of voice, fever, and increasing mass size. Some patients with an infected cyst experience drainage which can result in a foul taste in the mouth. These symptoms may make feedings difficult and unpleasant. We recommend you speak with your childs healthcare provider regarding his symptom.

Question: What causes Bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria ?
Answer: What causes bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria? The exact underlying cause of bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria (BPP) is unknown. The signs and symptoms associated with the condition are thought to be due to improper development of the outer surface of the brain (cerebral cortex) during embryonic growth. The cerebral cortex, which is responsible for conscious movement and thought, normally consists of several deep folds (gyri) and grooves (sulci). However, in people affected by BPP, the cerebral cortex has an abnormally increased number of gyri that are unusually small. Scientists believe that these abnormalities occur when newly developed brain cells fail to migrate to their destined locations in the outer portion of the brain. Specific non-genetic causes of polymicrogyria have been recognized, including exposure to cytomegalovirus infection (CMV) during pregnancy. Polymicrogyria has also been associated with certain complications in twin pregnancies.

Question: What causes Rheumatic Fever ?
Answer: What causes rheumatic fever? Rheumatic fever is an inflammatory condition that may develop approximately 14-28 days after infection with group A Streptococcus bacteria, such as strep throat or scarlet fever. About 5% of those with untreated strep infection will develop rheumatic fever. Although group A Streptococcus bacterial infections are highly contagious, rheumatic fever is not spread from person to person. The exact underlying cause of the condition is not well understood and it is unclear why some people with strep infections go on to develop rheumatic fever, while others do not. However, some scientists suspect that an exaggerated immune response in genetically susceptible people may play a role in the development of the condition.

Question: What causes Glucose transporter type 1 deficiency syndrome ?
Answer: What causes glucose transporter type 1 deficiency syndrome? Glucose transporter type 1 deficiency syndrome (GLUT1 deficiency syndrome) is caused by changes (mutations) in the SLC2A1 gene. This gene encodes a protein that helps transport glucose (a simple sugar) into cells where it is used as fuel. The protein is particularly important in the central nervous system since glucose is the brain's main source of energy. SLC2A1 mutations impair the function of the protein. This significantly reduces the amount of glucose available to brain cells leading to the many signs and symptoms associated with GLUT1 deficiency syndrome.

Question: What causes Cleidocranial dysplasia ?
Answer: What causes cleidocranial dysplasia? Cleidocranial dysplasia is caused by mutations in the RUNX2 (CBFA1) gene. The RUNX2 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is involved in bone and cartilage development and maintenance. Researchers believe that the RUNX2 protein acts as a "master switch," regulating a number of other genes involved in the development of cells that build bones (osteoblasts). Some mutations change one protein building block (amino acid) in the RUNX2 protein. Other mutations result in an abnormally short protein. This shortage of functional RUNX2 protein interferes with normal bone and cartilage development, resulting in the signs and symptoms of cleidocranial dysplasia. In rare cases, affected individuals may experience additional, unusual symptoms resulting from the loss of other genes located near RUNX2. In about one-third of individuals with cleidocranial dysplasia, no mutation in the RUNX2 gene has been found. The cause of the condition in these individuals is unknown. Read more about the RUNX2 gene.

Question: What causes X-linked hypophosphatemia ?
Answer: What causes X-linked hypophosphatemia? X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) is caused by mutations in the PHEX  gene on the X chromosome. Nearly 300 PHEX mutations have been associated with XLH. Mutations in this gene lead to an increase in the bodily concentration of fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23), a growth hormone that regulates phosphate reabsorption in the kidneys. Too much FGF23 causes phosphate wasting in the kidneys that prevents maintenance of proper phosphate levels in the blood and is responsible for the symptoms of XLH.

Question: What causes Myotonic dystrophy ?
Answer: What causes myotonic dystrophy? Myotonic dystrophy is caused by mutations called nucleotide repeat expansions in either the DMPK gene (in type 1) or the CNBP gene (in type 2). Nucleotide repeat expansions occur when a piece of DNA is abnormally repeated a number of times, which makes the gene unstable. In myotonic dystrophy, the gene instability leads to a series of events that ultimately prevent cells in muscles and other tissues from acting normally, leading to the features of the condition. The exact functions of these genes in not well understood. The DMPK gene may play a role in communication within cells, specifically in cells of the heart, brain, and skeletal muscles. The CNBP gene gives directions to make a protein found mainly in cells of the heart and skeletal muscles, where it is thought to regulate the activities of other genes.

Question: What causes Bartter syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Bartter syndrome? Bartter syndrome may be caused by mutations in any one of several genes; the genetic cause in each case corresponds to the type of Bartter syndrome each affected individual has. Types I, II and IV typically result in the antenatal forms of Bartter syndrome (beginning before birth) while type III results in classical Bartter syndrome (usually beginning in early childhood). Type I results from mutations in the SLC12A1 gene; type II from mutations in the KCNJ1 gene; type III from mutations in the CLCNKB gene; and type IV from mutations in the BSND gene, or from a combination of mutations in the CLCNKA and CLCNKB genes. In some people with Bartter syndrome, the genetic cause of the disorder remains unknown; there may be other genes that cause the condition that have not yet been identified. All of these genes are essential for normal kidney function - they are involved in the kidneys' abilities to reabsorb salt. Abnormal changes in these genes impair these abilities, allowing for the loss of excess salt through the urine and also affecting the reabsorption of other things including potassium and calcium. The resulting imbalance of these in the body lead to the signs and symptoms of Bartter syndrome.

Question: What causes Dystonia 8 ?
Answer: Are there non-genetic causes of paroxysmal nonkinesigenic dyskinesia? Yes. Sporadic (non-genetic) causes of paroxysmal nonkinesigenic dyskinesia have been reported in the literature. Non-genetic causes include lesions of the basal ganglia due to multiple sclerosis, tumors, and vascular lesions. In addition, lesions outside the basal ganglia (including those due to penetrating injury) have been reported as causing symptoms similar to those found in paroxysmal nonkinesigenic dyskinesia. In these situations, careful evaluation by a neurologist and neuroimaging (such as MRI) may be necessary for diagnosis.

Question: What causes Ewing's family of tumors ?
Answer: What causes Askins tumor? In 80% to 90% of Askins tumors, a part of chromosome 11 and chromosome 22 are translocated. 'Translocation' means that the chromosomes have exchanged material. This exchange of material interrupts the cell's ability to grow and divide normally. In general, cancers are caused when the genes that regulate the cell's growth and division are changed. The cause of the changes is unknown, but may be due to a combination of genetic factors, environmental factors, and the process of aging. The development of cancer is not a quick or simple process. It is a progression involving a build-up of changes in a number of different genes in the cells of the body tissues over time.

Question: What causes Febrile Ulceronecrotic Mucha-Habermann disease ?
Answer: What causes febrile ulceronecrotic Mucha-Habermann disease? The cause of FUMHD is not known (idiopathic). A hypersensitivity to an infectious agent is suggested to be the main cause. Single cases of people with FUMHD and Epstein-Barr virus infection, adenovirus, or cytomegalovirus have been reported, but there has been no consistent finding so far. There is some suggestion that FUMHD may be a type of clonal T-cell disorder. Clonal means that all the T-cells were derived from the same cell. T cells are a type of white blood cell (lymphocytes). They make up part of the immune system. T cells help the body fight diseases or harmful substances.

Question: What causes Multicentric Castleman Disease ?
Answer: What causes multicentric Castleman disease? The exact underlying cause of multicentric Castleman disease (MCD) is poorly understood. However, some scientists suspect that an increased production of interleukin-6 (IL-6) by the immune system may contribute to the development of MCD. IL-6 is a substance normally produced by cells within the lymph nodes that helps coordinate the immune response to infection. Increased production of IL-6 may result in an overgrowth of lymphatic cells, leading to many of the signs and symptoms of MCD. It has also been found that a virus called human herpes virus type 8 (also known as HHV-8, Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus, or KSHV) is present in many people with MCD. HHV-8 is found in nearly all people who are HIV-positive and develop MCD, and in up to 60% of affected people without HIV. The HHV-8 virus may possibly cause MCD by making its own IL-6.

Question: What causes Klippel Feil syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Klippel Feil syndrome (KFS)?  The specific underlying causes and mechanisms of Klippel Feil syndrome (KFS)are not well understood.  In general medical researchers believe KFS happens when the tissue of the embroyo that normally develops into separate vertebrae does not divide correctly.  More specifically, when KFS occurs with other syndromes such as fetal alcohol syndrome, Goldenhar syndrome, Wildervanck syndrome or hemifacial microsomia, medical researchers believe KFS has the same cause as the associated syndrome.  Isolated KFS (meaning not associated with another syndrome) can be sporadic or inherited.  Although KFS may in some cases be caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors, mutations in at least three genes have been linked to KFS: GDF6, GDF3 and MEOX1 gene.

Question: What causes Sjogren syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Sjogren syndrome? Sjogren syndrome likely results from a combination of genetic and environmental factors (multifactorial). Several different genes appear to affect the risk of developing the condition, however, specific genes have yet to be confirmed. Simply having one of these genes does not cause a person to develop the disease; some sort of trigger is also needed. That trigger may be a viral or bacterial infection. The genetic variations that increase susceptibility may reduce the body's ability to turn off the immune response when it is no longer needed. The possibility that the endocrine and nervous systems may play a role in the disease is also under investigation.

Question: What causes Achondrogenesis ?
Answer: What causes achondrogenesis? Research has shown that changes (mutations) in the SLC26A2 and COL2A1 genes cause achondrogenesis types 1B and 2, respectively. The genetic cause of achondrogenesis type 1A remains unknown.  The SLC26A2 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is important for the normal development of cartilage and for the conversion of cartilage to bone. The COL2A1 gene provides instructions for making a protein that forms a type of collagen found mostly in cartilage and in the clear gel that fills the eyeball (vitreous).  Mutations in these genes result in the production of proteins that are unable to properly perform their jobs within the body.

Question: What causes Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease ?
Answer: What causes Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease? Some researchers believe an unusual 'slow virus' or another organism causes Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD). However, they have never been able to isolate a virus or other organism in people with the disease. Furthermore, the agent that causes CJD has several characteristics that are unusual for known organisms such as viruses and bacteria. It is difficult to kill, it does not appear to contain any genetic information in the form of nucleic acids (DNA or RNA), and it usually has a long incubation period before symptoms appear. In some cases, the incubation period may be as long as 40 years. The leading scientific theory at this time maintains that CJD and the other TSEs are caused by a type of protein called a prion. Prion proteins occur in both a normal form, which is a harmless protein found in the bodys cells, and in an infectious form, which causes disease. The harmless and infectious forms of the prion protein have the same sequence of amino acids (the 'building blocks' of proteins) but the infectious form of the protein takes a different folded shape than the normal protein. Sporadic CJD may develop because some of a persons normal prions spontaneously change into the infectious form of the protein and then alter the prions in other cells in a chain reaction. Once they appear, abnormal prion proteins aggregate, or clump together. Investigators think these protein aggregates may lead to the neuron loss and other brain damage seen in CJD. However, they do not know exactly how this damage occurs. About 5 to 10 percent of all CJD cases are inherited. These cases arise from a mutation, or change, in the gene that controls formation of the normal prion protein. While prions themselves do not contain genetic information and do not require genes to reproduce themselves, infectious prions can arise if a mutation occurs in the gene for the bodys normal prion protein. If the prion protein gene is altered in a persons sperm or egg cells, the mutation can be transmitted to the persons offspring. Several different mutations in the prion gene have been identified. The particular mutation found in each family affects how frequently the disease appears and what symptoms are most noticeable. However, not all people with mutations in the prion protein gene develop CJD.

Question: What causes Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 ?
Answer: What causes human T-cell leukemia virus, type 1? Human T-cell leukemia virus, type 1 (HTLV-1) occurs when a person is infected by the human T-cell leukemia retrovirus. HTLV-1 is spread by blood transfusions, sexual contact and sharing needles. It can also be spread from mother to child during birth or breast-feeding. It is unclear why some people with HTLV-1 develop adult T-cell leukemia (ATL), HTLV-1 associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) or other medical conditions, while others remain asymptomatic (show no signs or symptoms) their entire lives.

Question: What causes Common variable immunodeficiency ?
Answer: What causes common variable immunodeficiency (CVID)? Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) is usually sporadic and thought to result from a combination of genetic and environmental factors. In most cases, the exact cause of CVID is unknown. Genetic factors associated with CVID include mutations in genes involved in the development and function of immune system cells (B cells) which help protect against infection. B cells make proteins called antibodies (also known as immunoglobulins), which attach to foreign agents and "mark" them to be destroyed. Mutations in genes associated with CVID result in B cells that don't make enough antibodies. This causes difficulty fighting infections, causing the signs and symptoms of CVID. Mutations in at least 10 genes have been associated with CVID. About 10% of affected people have mutations in the TNFRSF13B gene. However, not all people who inherit a mutation associated with CVID develop the disease. This is why additional genetic and/or environmental factors are probably needed for the disorder to occur. While CVID usually occurs in people with no family history of the condition, some cases are inherited in an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive manner.

Question: What causes Synovial Chondromatosis ?
Answer: What causes synovial chondromatosis? The exact underlying cause of synovial chondromatosis is unknown. Some research suggests that trauma may play a role in its development because the condition primarily occurs in weight-bearing joints. Infection has also been considered as a contributing factor. The condition is not inherited. Synovial chondromatosis can reportedly occur as either a primary or secondary form. Primary synovial chondromatosis, which is more rare, occurs spontaneously and does not appear to relate to any pre-existing conditions. Secondary synovial chondromatosis is the more common form and often occurs when there is pre-existent osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, osteonecrosis, osteochondritis dissecans, neuropathic osteoarthropathy (which often occurs in diabetic individuals), tuberculosis, or osteochondral fractures (torn cartilage covering the end of a bone in a joint) in the affected individual.

Question: What causes Tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated periodic syndrome ?
Answer: What causes tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS)? TRAPS is a genetic condition caused by mutations in a gene called TNFRSF1A. This gene gives the body instructions to make a protein called tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1). This protein exists in cell membranes where it binds to another protein called tumor necrosis factor (TNF). The binding sends signals that tell the cells to trigger inflammation (producing immune system proteins) or self-destruct. Most TNFRSF1A gene mutations that cause TRAPS result in incorrectly-shaped TNFR1 proteins, which become trapped in cells and cannot reach the surface to bind with TNF. The trapped proteins then clump together and are thought to trigger other pathways involved in causing inflammation. Affected people typically have a mutation in only one of their 2 copies of the TNFRSF1A gene, so some normal TNFR1 proteins are still produced, leading to even more inflammation. This is what leads to excess inflammation in people with TRAPS. It is unclear if abnormalities in the cells' ability to self-destruct also plays a role in causing the features of TRAPS.

Question: What causes Human T-cell leukemia virus type 2 ?
Answer: What causes human T-cell leukemia virus, type 2? Human T-cell leukemia virus, type 2 (HTLV-2) occurs when a person is infected by the human T-cell leukemia retrovirus. HTLV-2 is spread by blood transfusions, sexual contact and sharing needles. It can also be spread from mother to child during birth or breast-feeding. It is unclear why some people with HTLV-2 may develop neurological problems and other medical conditions, while others remain asymptomatic (show no signs or symptoms) their entire lives.

Question: What causes Isovaleric acidemia ?
Answer: What causes isovaleric acidemia? Isovaleric acidemia is caused by mutations in the IVD gene. The IVD gene provides instructions for making an enzyme that plays an essential role in breaking down proteins from the diet. Specifically, this enzyme helps process the amino acid leucine, which is part of many proteins. If a mutation in the IVD gene reduces or eliminates the activity of this enzyme, the body is unable to break down leucine properly. As a result, an organic acid called isovaleric acid and related compounds build up to harmful levels in the body. This buildup damages the brain and nervous system, causing serious health problems.

Question: What causes Mandibulofacial dysostosis with microcephaly ?
Answer: What causes mandibulofacial dysostosis with microcephaly? Mandibulofacial dysostosis with microcephaly (MFDM) is caused by mutations in the EFTUD2 gene. This gene gives the body instructions for making part of spliceosomes, which help process a type of RNA- a chemical cousin of DNA that serves as a genetic blueprint for making proteins. Mutations in EFTUD2 impair the production or function of the enzyme from the gene, which impairs the processing of mRNA. However, at this time, it is not clear how this process causes the specific symptoms of MFDM.

Question: What causes Rett syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Rett syndrome? Rett syndrome is typically caused by changes (mutations) in the MECP2 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein (MeCP2) needed for the development of the nervous system and normal brain function. Mutations in the MECP2 gene that cause Rett syndrome can change the MeCP2 protein or result in the production of too little protein, which appears to disrupt the normal function of neurons and other cells in the brain. Several conditions caused by changes in other genes (such as FOXG1 syndrome) have overlapping signs and/or symptoms of Rett syndrome. These conditions were once thought to be variant forms of Rett syndrome, but are now usually considered to be separate disorders.

Question: What causes Peters plus syndrome ?
Answer: Is there anything that I might have done that could have caused or prevented Peters plus syndrome? No. Peters plus syndrome is genetic; therefore, there is nothing you or your partner could have done to cause or to prevent the syndrome.

Question: What causes Chromosome 4q deletion ?
Answer: What causes chromosome 4q deletion? People with chromosome 4q deletion are missing genetic material located on the long arm (q) of chromosome 4 in each cell. Scientists suspect that many of the features seen in people affected by this condition are caused by the deletion and/or disruption of certain genes found on 4q. The severity of the condition and the associated signs and symptoms vary depending on the size and location of the deletion and which genes are involved. For example, deletion of the following genes may contribute to the features seen in some affected people: BMP3 - skeletal abnormalities and short stature SEC31A - distinctive craniofacial features PKD2 - kidney abnormalities GRID2, NEUROG2 - neurological problems such as seizures, hypotonia, and delayed motor development (i.e. sitting up, walking, etc) ANK2, HAND2 - heart defects and/or arrhythmias FGF2 - limb (arms and legs) abnormalities Researchers are working to learn more about the other genes on 4q that may contribute to the features seen in people with a chromosome 4q deletion.

Question: What causes MYH7-related scapuloperoneal myopathy ?
Answer: What causes MYH7-related scapuloperoneal myopathy? MYH7-related scapuloperoneal myopathy is caused by mutations in the MYH7 gene. This gene, located on chromosome 14q12, provides instructions for making a protein known as the cardiac beta ()-myosin heavy chain. This protein is found in heart (cardiac) muscle and in type I skeletal muscle fibers. Type I fibers, which are also known as slow-twitch fibers, are one of two types of fibers that make up skeletal muscles. Type I fibers are the primary component of skeletal muscles that are resistant to fatigue. For example, muscles involved in posture, such as the neck muscles that hold the head steady, are made predominantly of type I fibers.

Question: What causes Neurofibromatosis type 1 ?
Answer: What causes neurofibromatosis type 1? Neurofibromatosis type 1 is caused by changes (mutations) in the NF1 gene. NF1 is a tumor suppressor gene, which means that it encodes a protein that stops cells from growing and dividing too rapidly or in an uncontrolled way. Mutations in NF1 result in an abnormal protein that is unable to carry out its normal role. This contributes to the development of the many different types of tumors found in neurofibromatosis type 1. People with neurofibromatosis type 1 are typically born with one mutated copy of the NF1 gene in each cell and are, therefore, genetically predisposed to develop the tumors associated with the condition. For a tumor to form, two copies of the NF1 gene must be altered. The mutation in the second copy of the NF1 gene is considered a somatic mutation because it occurs during a person's lifetime and is not inherited. Almost everyone who is born with one NF1 mutation acquires a second mutation in many cells and develops the tumors characteristic of neurofibromatosis type 1.

Question: What causes Glycogen storage disease type 13 ?
Answer: What causes glycogen storage disease type 13? Glycogen storage disease type 13 (GSD13) is caused by changes (mutations) in the ENO3 gene.  Glycogen is a substance that is stored in muscle tissue and is used as an important source of energy for the muscles during movement and exercise.  The ENO3 gene makes a chemical called enolase, which is an enzyme that helps the muscles use glycogen for energy.  In GSD13, the ENO3 genes do not work properly such that the body cannot make enolase, and as a result, the muscles do not have enough energy to work properly.

Question: What causes Inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor ?
Answer: What causes inflammatory myofibroblastic tumors? The underlying cause of inflammatory myofibroblastic tumors (IMTs) remains unknown. While some researchers believe it is a true neoplasm, others believe that it represents an immunologic response to an infectious or noninfectious agent. Several associations have been reported between IMT and infections, including: organizing pneumonia Mycobacterium avium intracellulare Corynebacterium equi (a bacteria that affects the lungs) Campylobacter jejuni (a common cause of gastroenteritis) Bacillus sphaericus Coxiella burnetii Epstein-Barr virus E. coli occlusive phlebitis of intrahepatic veins Associations have also been reported between IMT and: previous abdominal surgery trauma ventriculoperitoneal shunt radiation therapy steroid usage An inflammatory reaction to an underlying, low-grade malignancy has also been proposed as a cause. Because there is limited information available to support or refute any of these, the mechanism behind the development of IMTs is still unclear.

Question: What causes Bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia ?
Answer: What causes bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia (BOOP)? BOOP may be caused by a variety of factors, including viral infections, inhalation of toxic gases, drugs, connective tissue disorders, radiation therapy, cocaine, inflammatory bowl disease, and HIV infection. In many cases, the underlying cause of BOOP is unknown. These cases are called idiopathic BOOP or cryptogenic organizing pneumonia (COP).

Question: What causes Adenoameloblastoma ?
Answer: What causes adenoameloblastoma? Currently the cause of adenoameloblastoma is not well understood. It may be associated with an interruption in tooth development. These legions tend to occur more commonly in young people (around 20 year-old), and most often in young women. Adenoameloblastomas in the front upper jaw are often associated with an impacted tooth.

Question: What causes Albright's hereditary osteodystrophy ?
Answer: What causes Albright's hereditary osteodystrophy? Albright's hereditary osteodystophy is caused by mutations in the GNAS gene. Albright's hereditary osteodystrophy is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait. The hormone resistance associated with Albright's hereditary osteodystrophy, in particular resistance to parathyroid hormone, depends on whether the mutated allele comes from the father or the mother. Within a family, some patients have isolated features of Albright's hereditary osteodystrophy without hormone resistance (called pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism) and some show the complete clinical picture. This is due to parental imprinting of the GNAS gene. Thus, in individuals with a mutated maternal GNAS allele, the disease is fully expressed while in individuals with a mutated paternal allele the disease is partially expressed and hormone resistance is not present.

Question: What causes Geographic tongue ?
Answer: What causes geographic tongue? Is it genetic? The exact cause of geographic tongue has not been identified. However, because the condition may be present in several members of the same family, genetics may increase a person's chances of developing the condition. A study by Guimares (2007) showed that a specific variant of a gene called IL-1B (interleukin-1 beta) is associated with an increased risk of developing geographic tongue and suggests a genetic basis for the development of the disease. Further research may result in a better understanding of the genetic influences involved in the development of geographic tongue.

Question: What causes Cold urticaria ?
Answer: What causes cold urticaria? In most cases of cold urticaria, the underlying cause is poorly understood. Although the symptoms are triggered by exposure of the skin to the cold (most often when the temperature is lower than 39 degrees Fahrenheit), it is unclear why this exposure leads to such a significant reaction. Rarely, cold urticaria is associated with blood conditions or infectious disease such as cryoglobulinemia, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, lymphosarcoma, chicken pox, viral hepatitis, and mononucleosis.

Question: What causes Majeed syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Majeed syndrome? Majeed syndrome is caused by mutations in the LPIN2 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called lipin-2. Researchers believe that this protein may play a role in the processing of fats. It may also be involved in controlling inflammation and play a role in cell division. Mutations in the LPIN2 gene alter the structure and function of lipin-2. It is unclear how these genetic changes lead to bone disease, anemia, and inflammation of the skin in people with Majeed syndrome.

Question: What causes Reticulohistiocytoma ?
Answer: What causes reticulohistiocytoma? While it is known that reticulohistiocytoma (RH) develop due to a rapid production of immune cells (histiocytes) in the skin or soft tissues, the cause of this process is not currently known.

Question: What causes Treacher Collins syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Treacher Collins syndrome? Treacher Collins syndrome (TCS) is caused by changes (mutations) in any of several genes: TCOF1 (in over 80% of cases), POLR1C, or POLR1D. In a few cases, the genetic cause of the condition is unknown. These genes appear to play important roles in the early development of bones and other tissues of the face. They are involved in making proteins that help make ribosomal RNA (rRNA). rRNA is a chemical needed to make new proteins that are necessary for normal function and survival of cells. Mutations in these genes can reduce the production of rRNA, which may cause cells involved in the development of facial bones and tissues to die early. This premature cell death may lead to the signs and symptoms of TCS. It is still unclear why the effects of these mutations are generally limited to facial development.

Question: What causes Coats disease ?
Answer: What causes Coats disease? The exact cause of Coats disease is not currently known. However, it is a reported feature of several different genetic syndromes, suggesting there may be a genetic component.[4716] Researchers believe that some cases of Coats disease may be due to somatic mutations in the NDP gene, which lead to deficient levels of a protein called norrin in the developing retina. A somatic mutation in this case is one that is acquired after conception (i.e. it was not inherited from a parent and cannot be passed on to an affected person's children).

Question: What causes Fatal familial insomnia ?
Answer: What causes fatal familial insomnia? Fatal familial insomnia (FFI) is caused by a specific change (mutation) in the PRNP gene. PRNP encodes the prion protein. Although the exact function of this protein is unknown, scientists suspect that it plays an important role in the brain. Mutations in the PRNP gene result in an abnormal form of the protein that clumps together and accumulates in the brain. This leads to the destruction of neurons (brain cells) and creates tiny holes in the brain, which give the brain a "sponge-like" appearance when viewed under a microscope. The progressive loss of neurons leads to the many signs and symptoms of FFI.

Question: What causes Benign schwannoma ?
Answer: What causes schwannomas? The cause of schwannomas is unknown. They sometimes occur in people with certain disorders including some types of neurofibromatosis (neurofibromatosis type 2 and schwannomatosis). In these cases, affected people have multiple tumors that are due to changes (mutations) in a gene. For example, neurofibromatosis type 2 is caused by mutations in the NF2 gene and schwannomatosis is caused by mutations in the SMARCB1 gene and the LZTR1 gene.

Question: What causes Fibromuscular dysplasia ?
Answer: What causes fibromuscular dysplasia? The cause of fibromuscular dysplasia is unknown. It is likely that there are many factors that contribute to the development of this condition. These factors may include blood vessel abnormalities, tobacco use, hormone levels, and genetic predispositions. Approximately 28 percent of affected individuals have more than one artery with fibromuscular dysplasia. It is not known why some people develop this condition in more than one artery.

Question: What causes Myelodysplastic syndromes ?
Answer: What causes myelodysplastic syndromes? It is known that the abnormal development of blood cells associated with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) develops as the result of a series of somatic genetic changes - mutations that are not inherited that arise after conception - in cells that later become blood cells. These changes alter normal cell growth and differentiation, resulting in the accumulation of abnormal, immature cells in the bone marrow, thus leading to the signs and symptoms of MDS. Some recurring chromosome abnormalities and translocations have been identified and can affect treatment planning and prognosis. Many times the underlying cause of MDS is unknown (idiopathic MDS). Sometimes, MDS can develop after chemotherapy and radiation treatment for cancer or autoimmune diseases (secondary MDS). There are also some possible risk factors for developing the condition. Having a risk factor does not mean that an individual will get MDS; not having risk factors doesnt mean that an individual will not get MDS. Possible risk factors for MDS may include past treatment with chemotherapy or radiation therapy; exposure to some chemicals (pesticides and benzene); exposure to heavy metals (such as mercury or lead); cigarette smoking; viral infections; being over 60 years of age; and being male or white. The majority of individuals developing MDS have no obvious connection with environmental hazards. MDS also sometimes runs in families, which suggests a potential genetic link with the disease; however, no disease causing gene has been identified.

Question: What causes Laryngeal cleft ?
Answer: What causes laryngeal cleft? During fetal development, the trachea and esophagus begin as one tube.  They later separate when a wall of tissue known as the tracheoesophageal septum forms, dividing the original tube into the trachea and esophagus.  If the tracheoesophageal septum fails to form, the trachea and esophagus may remain open to each other or abnormally shaped, causing abnormalities such as a laryngeal cleft, tracheoesophageal fistula, or esophageal atresia.  Exactly why these abnormalities occur is unknown.

Question: What causes Type 1 plasminogen deficiency ?
Answer: What causes plasminogen deficiency, type 1? Plasminogen deficiency, type 1 is caused by a mutation in a gene encoding plasminogen, an enzyme whose function is to dissolve fibrin clots. Fibrin clots form scabs at a wound site.

Question: What causes Pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: What causes pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency? Pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) deficiency is usually caused by a deficiency of one or more enzymes or cofactors (such as thiamine) that are needed for an important chemical reaction in the cells of the body. These enzymes or cofactors are part of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex and normally convert (or aid in converting) a chemical called pyruvate to another chemical called acetyl-coenzyme A (CoA), which is one of two important chemicals the body needs to make citrate for the cells. Because pyruvate cannot be converted to acetyl-CoA, there is too much pyruvate in the cells, which then gets used to produce more lactic acid (which is toxic in large amounts) and alanine; there is also not enough citrate being made by the body. Citrate is the first step in another important group of chemical reactions called the citric acid cycle, which then cannot proceed. The body tries to make alternate pathways to produce more acetyl-CoA, but there is still not enough energy made in the body, especially in the central nervous system (CNS). The amount of energy that is deficient depends on the amount of the enzyme that is deficient. The condition is sometimes referred to as pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDHC) deficiency because there is a "complex" of three enzymes normally used in the reaction; when any one or more of the enzymes needed for the above-described reaction are deficient, the condition results. The most common form of pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency is caused by mutations in the X-linked dominant E1 alpha gene; all other causes are thought to be due to mutations in recessive genes.

Question: What causes Fumarase deficiency ?
Answer: What causes fumarase deficiency? Mutations in the FH gene cause fumarase deficiency. The FH gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called fumarase, which participates in a series of reactions allowing cells to use oxygen and generate energy. Mutations in the FH gene disrupt the enzyme's ability to do its job. Disruption of the process that generates energy for cells is particularly harmful to cells in the developing brain, thus resulting in the signs and symptoms of fumarase deficiency.

Question: What causes Long QT syndrome ?
Answer: What causes long QT syndrome? Acquired long QT syndrome can be caused by certain medicines and medical conditions. Some medications that cause long QT syndrome include antihistamines and decongestants, antibiotics, antidepressants, and cholesterol-lowering medicines. Examples of medical conditions that can cause long QT syndrome include excessive diarrhea or vomiting and certain thyroid disorders. Inherited forms of long QT syndrome are caused by changes in genes that control the heart muscles electrical activity. Inherited long QT syndrome may be isolated (occur alone without other associated symptoms) or be due to a genetic syndrome, such as Romano-Ward syndrome, Jervell Lang-Nielsen syndrome, Anderson-Tawil syndrome, and Timothy syndrome.

Question: What causes Aquagenic pruritus ?
Answer: What causes aquagenic pruritus? The exact cause of aquagenic pruritus is unknown, but increased mast cell degranulation (release of granules rich in histamine and other compounds into the body by mast cells, a special type of cell that plays a role in the immune system), increased circulating histamine, release of acetylcholine (a chemical in the body which sends signals from nerves to muscles and between nerves in the brain), and increased skin fibrinolytic activity (activity that controls clot size by promoting the breakdown of clots) have all been named as possible causes of the condition. In some cases, it appears to be a symptom of polycythemia vera.

Question: What causes X-linked dominant scapuloperoneal myopathy ?
Answer: What causes X-linked dominant scapuloperoneal myopathy? X-linked dominant scapuloperoneal myopathy is caused by mutations in the FHL1 gene. The FHL1 gene is located on chromosome Xq26. This gene may be involved in muscle development or hypertrophy.

Question: What causes Steatocystoma multiplex ?
Answer: What causes steatocystoma multiplex? Mutations in a gene called keratin 17 (KRT17) have been identified in some individuals with inherited steatocystoma multiplex. In these families the condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. In other cases the condition occurs sporadically. This may mean that it is due to a gene mutation that was not inherited, but occurred for the first time in the affected individual. A sporadic condition may also be non-genetic and occur by chance, in which case it is not likely to recur in a family.  In many sporadic cases of steatocystoma multiplex, mutations in the KRT17 gene have not been identified. Cases of steatocystoma multiplex have also been reported in association with pachyonychia congenita, acrokeratosis verruciformis, hypertrophic lichen planus, hypohidrosis, hidradenitis suppurativa, and natal teeth.

Question: What causes Colpocephaly ?
Answer: What causes colpocephaly? Researchers believe that the disorder results from some kind of disturbance in the fetal environment that occurs between the second and sixth months of pregnancy. The underlying causes of colpocephaly are multiple and diverse. Causes include chromosomal anomalies such as trisomy-8 mosaicism and trisomy-9 mosaicism; intrauterine infection such as toxoplasmosis; perinatal anoxic-ischemic encephalopathy; and maternal drug ingestion during early pregnancy, such as corticosteroids, salbutamol, and theophylline. In addition, a familial occurrence of colpocephaly has been noted in three reports. A genetic origin with an autosomal recessive or X-linked recessive inheritance was suggested in these familial cases.

Question: What causes Dentinogenesis imperfecta ?
Answer: What causes dentinogenesis imperfecta? Mutations in the DSPP gene cause dentinogenesis imperfecta. The DSPP gene provides instructions for making three proteins that are essential for normal tooth development. These proteins are involved in the formation of dentin, which is a bone-like substance that makes up the protective middle layer of each tooth. DSPP mutations alter the proteins made from the gene, leading to the production of abnormally soft dentin. Teeth with defective dentin are discolored, weak, and more likely to decay and break. It is unclear how DSPP mutations are related to hearing loss in some families with dentinogenesis imperfecta type II.

Question: What causes Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: What causes glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency?  Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency is caused by mutations in the G6PD gene. This gene gives the body instructions to make an enzyme called G6PD, which is involved in processing carbohydrates. This enzyme also protects red blood cells from potentially harmful molecules called reactive oxygen species. Chemical reactions involving G6PD produce compounds that prevent reactive oxygen species from building up to toxic levels within red blood cells. Mutations in the G6PD gene lower the amount of G6PD or alter its structure, lessening its ability to play its protective role. As a result, reactive oxygen species can accumulate and damage red blood cells. Factors such as infections, certain drugs, or eating fava beans can increase the levels of reactive oxygen species, causing red blood cells to be destroyed faster than the body can replace them. This reduction of red blood cells causes the signs and symptoms of hemolytic anemia in people with G6PD deficiency.

Question: What causes Hashimoto's syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Hashimotos syndrome? Hashimoto's syndrome is an autoimmune disorder thought to result from a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Some of these factors have been identified, but many remain unknown. People with Hashimotos syndrome have antibodies to various thyroid antigens. The antibodies "attack" the thyroid, resulting in damage to the gland. Most of the genes associated with Hashimotos syndrome are part of a gene family called the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex, which helps the immune system distinguish the body's own proteins from proteins made by viruses and bacteria or other agents. However, the genetic factors have only a small effect on a person's overall risk of developing this condition. Non-genetic factors that may trigger the condition in people at risk may include changes in sex hormones (particularly in women), viral infections, certain medications, exposure to ionizing radiation, and excess consumption of iodine (a substance involved in thyroid hormone production).

Question: What causes Gardner syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Gardner syndrome? Gardner syndrome is caused by changes (mutations) in the APC gene, which is called a "tumor suppressor." Tumor suppressor genes encode proteins that are part of the system that controls cell growth and division. These proteins ensure that cells do not grow and divide too quickly or in an abnormal manner. Mutations in the APC gene lead to uncontrolled cell growth which results in the development of the polyps, tumors and cancers that can be associated with Gardner syndrome. The symptoms found in each person and the severity of the condition depend on which part of the APC gene is mutated.

Question: What causes Progressive transformation of germinal centers ?
Answer: What causes progressive transformation of germinal centers?  Is it genetic? The cause of progressive transformation of germinal centers (PTGC) is currently unknown.  Also, there is no evidence in the medical literature that PTGC is a genetic condition.

Question: What causes Jones syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Jones syndrome? The exact, underlying genetic cause of Jones syndrome is not yet known.

Question: What causes Stenotrophomonas maltophilia infection ?
Answer: What causes Stenotrophomonas maltophilia infection? Stenotrophomonas maltophilia (S. maltophilia) infections are caused by the S. maltophilia bacteria. These bacteria live in various aquatic (water-based) environments. In a hospital setting, they are able to survive and multiply in fluids such as respiratory secretions, urine, and intravenous (IV) fluids. Most healthy people do not get S. maltophilia infections. However, people who are hospitalized and receiving treatment for other conditions may be susceptible to these infections, especially those with severely impaired immune systems. Factors that increase the risk for S. maltophilia infection include admission to an intensive care unit, prolonged hospitalization, HIV infection, cancer, cystic fibrosis, neutropenia, recent surgery, trauma, mechanical ventilation, and previous therapy with broad-spectrum antibiotics (medications that target a wide range of bacteria).

Question: What causes Craniometaphyseal dysplasia, autosomal dominant ?
Answer: What causes autosomal dominant craniometaphyseal dysplasia? Autosomal dominant craniometaphyseal dysplasia is caused by mutations in the ANKH gene. The ANKH gene provides instructions for making a protein that is present in bone and transports a molecule called pyrophosphate out of cells. Pyrophosphate helps regulate bone formation by preventing mineralization, the process by which minerals such as calcium and phosphorus are deposited in developing bones. The ANKH protein may have other, unknown functions. Mutations in the ANKH gene that cause autosomal dominant craniometaphyseal dysplasia may decrease the ANKH protein's ability to transport pyrophosphate out of cells. Reduced levels of pyrophosphate can increase bone mineralization, contributing to the bone overgrowth seen in craniometaphyseal dysplasia. Why long bones are shaped differently and only the skull bones become thicker in people with this condition remains unclear.

Question: What causes Felty's syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Felty's syndrome? The exact cause of Felty's syndrome is unknown, although several causes and risk factors have been proposed. Some experts believe it may be an autoimmune disorder, and that it may sometimes be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Other proposed risk factors have included: RF (rheumatoid factor) positivity - being positive for a test used to help diagnose rheumatoid arthritis Long-term rheumatoid arthritis Aggressive and erosive synovitis (inflammation of the tissue that lines the joints) HLA-DR4 positivity (having a specific gene for the immune system that is associated with RA) and DR4 homozygosity (having 2 identical copies of this gene) Extra-articular RA manifestations (symptoms that are not joint-related)

Question: What causes Punctate palmoplantar keratoderma type I ?
Answer: What causes palmoplantar keratoderma type 1? Punctate palmoplantar keratoderma type 1 is a condition that is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. It has recently been shown to be caused by mutations in the AAGAB gene in several families. Although the exact function of the AAGAB gene is currently unknown, the gene is thought to play an important role in skin integrity.

Question: What causes 2q37 deletion syndrome ?
Answer: What causes 2q37 deletion syndrome? 2q37 deletion syndrome is caused by a deletion of genetic material from a specific region in the long (q) arm of chromosome 2. The deletion occurs near the end of the chromosome at a location designated 2q37. The size of the deletion varies among affected individuals. The signs and symptoms of this disorder are probably related to the loss of multiple genes in this region.

Question: What causes 47, XYY syndrome ?
Answer: What causes 47, XYY syndrome? 47,XYY syndrome is caused by the presence of an extra copy of the Y chromosome in each of a male's cells. This is typically due to a random event during the formation of a sperm cell in the father, usually before conception (fertilization of the egg). In this case, the father's two Y chromosomes do not separate when sperm cells are being made. If two Y chromosomes are present in a sperm that fertilizes an egg (with an X chromosome), the resulting embryo will be a male with an extra Y chromosome. It is also possible that a similar random event could occur very early in an embryo's development. It is not fully understood why an extra copy of the Y chromosome leads to an increased risk for the features associated with 47, XYY syndrome in some males. Importantly, there is nothing either parent can do (or not do) to cause or prevent 47, XYY syndrome.

Question: What causes 48,XXYY syndrome ?
Answer: What causes 48,XXYY? 48,XXYY syndrome is a condition related to the X and Y chromosomes (the sex chromosomes). People normally have 46 chromosomes in each cell. Two of the 46 chromosomes, known as X and Y, are called sex chromosomes because they help determine whether a person will develop male or female sex characteristics. Females typically have two X chromosomes (46,XX), and males have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome (46,XY). 48,XXYY syndrome results from the presence of an extra copy of both sex chromosomes in each of a male's cells (48,XXYY). Extra copies of genes on the X chromosome interfere with male sexual development, preventing the testes from functioning normally and reducing the levels of testosterone. Many genes are found only on the X or Y chromosome, but genes in areas known as the pseudoautosomal regions are present on both sex chromosomes. Extra copies of genes from the pseudoautosomal regions of the extra X and Y chromosome contribute to the signs and symptoms of 48,XXYY syndrome; however, the specific genes have not been identified.[5209]

Question: What causes Buerger disease ?
Answer: What causes Buerger disease? Buerger disease has a strong relationship to cigarette smoking. This association may be due to direct poisioning of cells from some component of tobacco, or by hypersensitivity to the same components. Many people with Buerger disease will show hypersensitivities to injection of tobacco extracts into their skin. There may be a genetic component to susceptibility to Buerger disease as well. It is possible that these genetic influences account for the higher prevalence of Buerger disease in people of Israeli, Indian subcontinent, and Japanese descent. Certain HLA (human leukocyte antigen) haplotypes have also been found in association with Buerger disease.

Question: What causes Lafora disease ?
Answer: What causes Lafora disease? Most cases of Lafora disease are caused by changes (mutations) in either the EPM2A gene or the NHLRC1 gene. These genes encode proteins that play a critical role in the survival of nerve cells (neurons) in the brain. Although the proteins are thought to have many functions in the body, one important role is to help regulate the production of a complex sugar called glycogen (an important source of stored energy in the body). Mutations in the EPM2A gene or the NHLRC1 gene interfere with the production of functional proteins, leading to the formation of Lafora bodies (clumps of abnormal glycogen that cannot be broken down and used for fuel) within cells. A build up of Lafora bodies appears to be especially toxic to the cells of the nervous system and leads to the signs and symptoms of Lafora disease.

Question: What causes Hemochromatosis ?
Answer: What causes hemochromatosis? The underlying cause of hemochromatosis depends on whether a person has a hereditary form, an acquired form, or the neonatal form. Hereditary hemochromatosis is caused by mutations in any of several genes: type 1 hemochromatosis - the HFE gene type 2 hemochromatosis - either the HFE2 or HAMP gene type 3 hemochromatosis - the TFR2 gene type 4 hemochromatosis - the SLC40A1 gene These genes give the body instructions to make proteins that help regulate how iron is absorbed, transported, and stored. Mutations in these genes impair how iron is absorbed during digestion and alter the distribution of iron throughout the body. This causes iron to accumulate in tissues and organs. Acquired hemochromatosis (or secondary hemochromatosis) is usually due to other blood-related disorders, such as thalassemia or certain anemias, or having many blood transfusions. Sometimes it occurs as a result of long-term alcoholism or other health conditions. The cause of neonatal hemochromatosis is not fully understood. However, a woman with an affected child has approximately an 80% chance to have another affected child. This likelihood of recurrence is not explained by normal inheritance patterns. Therefore, this form appears to be familial, but not inherited.

Question: What causes Cerebellar degeneration ?
Answer: What causes cerebellar degeneration? Cerebellar degeneration can be caused by a variety of different conditions. Neurological diseases that can lead to cerebellar degeneration include: Acute and hemorrhagic stroke can result in a lack of blood flow or oxygen to the brain, leading to the death of neurons in the cerebellum and other brain structures. Cerebellar cortical atrophy, multisystem atrophy and olivopontocerebellar degeneration are progressive degenerative disorders that affect various parts of the nervous system, including the cerebellum. Spinocerebellar ataxias, including Friedreich ataxia, are caused by inherited changes (mutations) in many different genes and are characterized by cell death in the cerebellum, brain stem, and spinal cord. Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (such as 'Mad Cow Disease' and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease) are associated with inflammation of the brain, particularly in the cerebellum, that is caused by abnormal proteins. Multiple sclerosis occurs when the insulating membrane (myelin) that wraps around and protects nerve cells (including those of the cerebellum) become damaged. Other conditions that can lead to temporary or permanent cerebellar damage include chronic alcohol abuse and paraneoplastic disorders.

Question: What causes Dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: What causes dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency? Dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (DLD) deficiency is caused by changes (mutations) in the DLD gene. This gene gives the body instructions to make an enzyme called dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (DLD). DLD is one part of 3 different groups of enzymes that work together (enzyme complexes). These enzyme complexes are involved in breaking down amino acids commonly found in protein-rich foods, and in other reactions that help to convert energy from food into a form that our cells can use. Mutations in the DLD gene impair the function of DLD, preventing the 3 enzyme complexes from functioning properly. This causes a build-up of molecules that are normally broken down, which in turn leads to tissue damage, lactic acidosis and other chemical imbalances. The brain is especially sensitive to the buildup of molecules and lack of cellular energy, which is why there are neurological problems associated with DLD deficiency.

Question: What causes Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus ?
Answer: What causes nephrogenic diabetes insipidus? Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus can be either acquired or hereditary. The acquired form can result from chronic kidney disease, certain medications (such as lithium), low levels of potassium in the blood (hypokalemia), high levels of calcium in the blood (hypercalcemia), or an obstruction of the urinary tract. Acquired nephrogenic diabetes insipidus can occur at any time during life. The hereditary form of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is caused by genetic mutations, and its signs and symptoms usually become apparent within the first few months of life.

Question: What causes Chilaiditi syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Chilaiditi syndrome? The exact cause of Chilaiditi syndrome is unknown. The condition appears to occur with higher frequency among individuals with chronic lung disease, scarring of the liver (cirrhosis), and in those with an accumulation of ascites in the abdomen. Other risk factors may include reduced liver volume, paralysis of the motor nerve to the diaphragm (phrenic nerve palsy), and obesity. In some cases, the condition is present from birth (congenital).

Question: What causes Lemierre syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Lemierre syndrome? In about 90% of cases, Lemierre syndrome is caused by Fusobacterium necrophorum; however, the syndrome has also been reported with other bacteria, including Stapylococcus aureus, Bacteroides, Eikenella, Porphyromonas, Prevotella, Proteus, Peptostreptococcus and Streptococcus pyogenes.

Question: What causes 3-Hydroxyisobutyric aciduria ?
Answer: What causes 3-hydroxyisobutyric aciduria? In many affected people, the exact underlying cause of 3-hydroxyisobutyric aciduria is poorly understood. Scientists believe that some cases are caused by changes (mutations) in the ALDH6A1 gene. This gene encodes an enzyme called methylmalonate semialdehyde dehydrogenase, which helps the body break down certain amino acids (the building blocks of protein) found in food. If this gene isn't working properly, the body is unable to break down the amino acids valine and thymine which leads to a build-up of toxic substances in the body and the many signs and symptoms of 3-hydroxyisobutyric aciduria.

Question: What causes Neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy ?
Answer: What causes neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy? Neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy is caused by mutations in the PNPLA2 gene. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL). The ATGL enzyme plays a role in breaking down fats called triglycerides. Triglycerides are an important source of stored energy in cells. These fats must be broken down into simpler molecules called fatty acids before they can be used for energy. PNPLA2 gene mutations impair the ATGL enzyme's ability to break down triglycerides, allowing them to accumulate in muscle and tissues throughout the body. This results in the signs and symptoms seen in people with neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy.

Question: What causes Wildervanck syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Wildervanck syndrome? The exact cause of Wildervanck syndrome is not known.  It is suspected to be a polygenic condition, meaning that many genetic factors may be involved.

Question: What causes Prinzmetal's variant angina ?
Answer: What causes Prinzmetal's variant angina? Prinzmetal's variant angina is caused by coronary artery spasms. A coronary artery spasm is a temporary, abrupt, and focal (restricted to one location) contraction of the muscles in the wall of an artery in the heart. This spasm constricts the artery, slowing or stoping blood flow. A prolonged spasm can cause chest pain, or even a heart attack (myocardial infarction).

Question: What causes Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, dermatosparaxis type ?
Answer: What causes Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, dermatosparaxis type? Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS), dermatosparaxis type is caused by changes (mutations) in the ADAMTS2 gene. This gene encodes an enzyme that helps process several types of "procollagen molecules" (precursors of collagen). Collagen is a protein that provides structure and strength to connective tissues throughout the body. Mutations in ADAMTS2 lead to reduced levels of functional enzyme which interferes with the proper processing of procollagens. As a result, networks of collagen are not assembled properly. This weakens connective tissues and causes the many signs and symptoms associated with EDS, dermatosparaxis type.

Question: What causes Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: What causes dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency? DPD deficiency is caused by mutations in the DPYD gene. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), which is involved in the breakdown of molecules called uracil and thymine. Uracil and thymine are building blocks of DNA, RNA, and molecules that serve as energy sources in cells. Mutations in the DPYD gene result in deficiencies (to various degrees) of functional DPD, interfering with the breakdown of uracil and thymine in cells. This results in excessive amounts of uracil and thymine in the blood, urine, and the fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord. It is currently poorly understood exactly how this cascade of events causes the signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: What causes Behcet's disease ?
Answer: What causes Behcet's disease? The exact cause of Behet's disease is unknown. Most symptoms of the disease are caused by inflammation of the blood vessels. Inflammation is a characteristic reaction of the body to injury or disease and is marked by four signs: swelling, redness, heat, and pain. Doctors think that an autoimmune reaction may cause the blood vessels to become inflamed, but they do not know what triggers this reaction. Under normal conditions, the immune system protects the body from diseases and infections by killing harmful "foreign" substances, such as germs, that enter the body. In an autoimmune reaction, the immune system mistakenly attacks and harms the body's own tissues. Behet's disease is not contagious; it is not spread from one person to another. Researchers think that two factors are important for a person to get Behet's disease. First, it is believed that abnormalities of the immune system make some people susceptible to the disease. Scientists think that this susceptibility may be inherited; that is, it may be due to one or more specific genes. Second, something in the environment, possibly a bacterium or virus, might trigger or activate the disease in susceptible people.

Question: What causes Primary hyperoxaluria type 2 ?
Answer: What causes primary hyperoxaluria type 2? Researchers have identified more than a dozen GRHPR mutations that cause this condition. These mutations either introduce signals that disrupt production of the glyoxylate reductase/hydroxypyruvate reductase enzyme or alter its structure. As a result, enzyme activity is absent or dramatically reduced. Glyoxylate builds up because of the enzyme shortage, and is converted to a compound called oxalate instead of glycolate. Oxalate, in turn, combines with calcium to form calcium oxalate, which the body cannot readily eliminate. Deposits of calcium oxalate can lead to the characteristic features of primary hyperoxaluria type 2.

Question: What causes Friedreich ataxia ?
Answer: What causes Friedreich ataxia? Friedreich ataxia is caused by mutations in the FXN gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called frataxin. One region of the FXN gene contains a segment of DNA known as a GAA trinucleotide repeat. This segment is made up of a series of three DNA building blocks (one guanine and two adenines) that appear multiple times in a row. Normally, this segment is repeated 5 to 33 times within the FXN gene. In people with Friedreich ataxia, the GAA segment is repeated 66 to more than 1,000 times. The length of the GAA trinucleotide repeat appears to be related to the age at which the symptoms of Friedreich ataxia appear. The abnormally long GAA trinucleotide repeat disrupts the production of frataxin, which severely reduces the amount of this protein in cells. Certain nerve and muscle cells cannot function properly with a shortage of frataxin, leading to the characteristic signs and symptoms of Friedreich ataxia.

Question: What causes Tetrasomy X ?
Answer: What causes tetrasomy X? Tetrasomy X is usually caused by a random error in the formation of an egg cell (before pregnancy). In some cases, it may be due to inheriting three X chromosomes from the mother and one X chromosome from the father. In other cases, it may be due to inheriting all four X chromosomes from the mother. During the normal formation of egg cells, each egg cell contains one X chromosome to pass on to offspring. However, errors in cell division can cause an egg cell to have three or four X chromosomes, instead of one. If an egg cell with the extra X chromosomes is fertilized by a sperm cell with one X chromosome, the resulting embryo will have these extra chromosomes. Rarely, tetrasomy X may be caused by an error in cell division that occurs after an egg is fertilized, or by the presence of extra X chromosomes in some of the mother's cells.

Question: What causes Tubular aggregate myopathy ?
Answer: What causes tubular aggregate myopathy? Currently, the underlying cause of tubular aggregate myopathy is not known. Some cases appear to be due to dominant mutations in the STIM1 gene.

Question: What causes Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome? Mutations in the GLI3 gene cause Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome (GCPS). The GLI3 gene provides instructions for making a protein that controls gene expression, which is a process that regulates whether genes are turned on or off in particular cells. By interacting with certain genes at specific times during development, the GLI3 protein plays a role in the normal shaping (patterning) of many organs and tissues before birth. Different genetic changes involving the GLI3 gene can cause GCPS. In some cases, the condition results from a chromosome abnormalitysuch as a large deletion or rearrangement of genetic materialin the region of chromosome 7 that contains the GLI3 gene. In other cases, a mutation in the GLI3 gene itself is responsible for the disorder. Each of these genetic changes prevents one copy of the gene in each cell from producing any functional protein. It remains unclear how a reduced amount of this protein disrupts early development and causes the characteristic features of GCPS.

Question: What causes Sideroblastic anemia ?
Answer: What causes sideroblastic anemia? The exact cause of sideroblastic anemia in many patients remains unknown. Reversible sideroblastic anemia can be caused by alcohol, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, cycloserine (a prescription antibiotic that may cause anemia, peripheral neuritis, or seizures by acting as a pyridoxine antagonist or increasing excretion of pyridoxine), chloramphenicol, or copper deficiency. The hereditary forms may be passed through families in autosomal recessive, autosomal dominant, or X-linked patterns.

Question: What causes Familial osteochondritis dissecans ?
Answer: What causes osteochondritis dissecans? In most cases, the exact underlying cause of osteochondritis dissecans is not completely understood. Scientists suspect that it may be due to decreased blood flow to the end of the affected bone, which may occur when repetitive episodes of minor injury and/or stress damage a bone overtime. In some families, osteochondritis dissecans is caused by changes (mutations) in the ACAN gene. In these cases, which are referred to as familial osteochondritis dissecans, the condition generally affects multiple joints and is also associated with short stature and early-onset osteoarthritis. The ACAN gene encodes a protein that is important to the structure of cartilage. Mutations in this gene weaken cartilage, which leads to the various signs and symptoms of familial osteochondritis disssecans.

Question: What causes Congenital laryngeal palsy ?
Answer: What is the cause of congenital laryngeal paralysis? The cause is often unknown (idiopathic). Congenital bilateral vocal cord paralysis may occur as a result of the immaturity of the nerve or muscle (neuromuscular) or as a result of central nervous system problems, such as Arnold-Chiari syndrome, cerebral palsy, hydrocephalus, myelomeningocele, spine bifida, hypoxia (lack of oxygen in the blood), or bleeding. In other cases the vocal cords' paralysis is acquired. For example, a birth trauma may cause tension in the neck and lead to bilateral vocal cord paralyses that can last 6-9 months. Other causes may include:  Surgical Trauma  Malignancies  Delayed endotracheal intubation  Neurological diseases  Strokes  Choking  Diseases that result in inflammation of the vocal cords or the laryngeal cartilage (Wegener's granulomatosis, sarcoidosis or polychondritis, gout, syphilis and tuberculosis (resulting in mechanical attachment of the vocal cords)  Diabetes mellitus, which may lead to a neuropathy resulting in vocal cord paralysis  Gastroesophageal reflux (GER). The unilateral paralysis is usually idiopathic but may also be secondary to mediastinal lesions, such as tumors or vascular malformations or iatrogenic (caused by damage to the left recurrent laryngeal nerve during surgery in this area, such as heart surgery). It may also result from problems of the mechanical structures of the larynx as the cricoarytenoid joint. The following online resources provide more information on the cause of congenital laryngeal paralysis: American Academy of Otolaringology Medscape Reference - Congenital Malformations of the Larynx

Question: What causes Renal oncocytoma ?
Answer: What causes a renal oncocytoma? The exact underlying cause of most renal oncocytomas is unknown. However, researchers suspect that acquired (not present at birth) changes in mitochondrial DNA may play a role in the development of some of these tumors. Renal oncocytomas sometimes occur in people with certain genetic syndromes such as tuberous sclerosis complex and Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome. In these cases, affected people often have multiple and bilateral (affecting both kidneys) oncocytomas and may also have family members with these tumors. When renal oncocytomas are part of a genetic syndrome, they are caused by changes (mutations) in a specific gene. Tuberous sclerosis complex is caused by mutations in the TSC1 gene or TSC2 gene, while Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome is caused by mutations in the FLCN gene.

Question: What causes Poland syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Poland syndrome? The cause of Poland syndrome is unknown. Most evidence supports the idea that something abnormal happens during the sixth week of fetal development. This event most likely involves the vascular (blood and lymph) system. Speculations include: An interruption of the embryonic blood supply of the arteries that lie under the collarbone (subclavian arteries). This could be caused by the forward growth of the ribs reducing the flow of blood. A malformation of the subclavian arteries causes a reduced amount of blood delivered to the developing tissues on one side of the body.

Question: What causes Progressive deafness with stapes fixation ?
Answer: What causes deafness, progressive with stapes fixation? The exact cause of deafness, progressive with stapes fixation depends on whether it is associated with an underlying condition or infection. Isolated cases may be inherited.  Autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, and X-linked cases have been reported. In some cases, no underlying cause can be identified.

Question: What causes Mycobacterium Malmoense ?
Answer: How are mycobacterium malmoense infections contracted? M. Malmoense infection may be acquired by breathing in or ingesting the bacteria, or through trauma, such as an injury or surgical incision. People who have suppressed immune systems are at an increased risk for developing signs and symptoms from these infections.

Question: What causes Holt-Oram syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Holt-Oram syndrome? Holt-Oram syndrome is caused by changes (mutations) in the TBX5 gene. This gene gives the body instructions for making a protein involved in the development of the heart and upper limbs before birth. In particular, this gene seems important for dividing the developing heart into four chambers, and in regulating the development of bones in the arms and hands. When the TBX5 gene doesn't function properly, the features of Holt-Oram syndrome result. In some cases the mutation occurs for the first time in an affected person, while in other cases the mutation is inherited from a parent. However, in both of these cases, there is nothing a parent can do to cause this mutation or condition in a child.

Question: What causes Russell-Silver syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Russell-Silver syndrome? Russell-Silver syndrome (RSS) is a genetic disorder that usually results from the abnormal regulation of certain genes that control growth. Two genetic causes have been found to result in the majority of cases: abnormalities at an imprinted region on chromosome 11p15 - for some genes, only the copy inherited from a person's father (paternal copy) or mother (maternal copy) is "turned on," or expressed. These parent-specific differences in gene expression are caused by a phenomenon called genomic imprinting. Abnormalities involving genes that undergo imprinting are responsible for many cases of RSS. maternal disomy of chromosome 7 (written as matUPD7) - this occurs when a child inherits both copies of chromosome 7 from the mother, instead of one copy from the mother and one copy from the father. Other chromosome abnormalities involving any of several chromosomes have also been described as causing RSS, or RSS-like syndromes. In some people with RSS, the underlying cause remains unknown.

Question: What causes Branchiootorenal syndrome ?
Answer: What causes branchiootorenal syndrome? Mutations in the genes, EYA1, SIX1, and SIX5, are known to cause branchiootorenal syndrome. About 40 percent of people with this condition have a mutation in the EYA1 gene. SIX1 and SIX5 mutations are much less common causes of the disorder. There are likely other genes that have not yet been identified that when mutated can cause this syndrome as well.

Question: What causes Carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency ?
Answer: What causes carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency? Carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency occurs when an enzyme, called "carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase" (CAT), is either missing or not working properly. This enzyme's job is to help change certain fats in the food we eat into energy. It also helps to break down fat already stored in the body. Energy from fat keeps us going whenever our bodies run low of their main source of energy, a type of sugar called glucose. Our bodies rely on fat for energy when we don't eat for a stretch of time - like when we miss a meal or when we sleep. When the CAT normal enzyme is missing or not working well, the body cannot use fat for energy, and must rely solely on glucose. Although glucose is a good source of energy, there is a limited amount available. Once the glucose has been used up, the body tries to use fat without success. This leads to low blood sugar, called hypoglycemia, and to the build up of harmful substances in the blood.

Question: What causes CREST syndrome ?
Answer: What causes CREST syndrome? In people with CREST syndrome, the immune system appears to stimulate cells called fibroblasts to produce excess amounts of collagen. Normally, fibroblasts synthesize collagen to help heal wounds, but in this case, the protein is produced even when it's not needed, forming thick bands of connective tissue around the cells of the skin, blood vessels and in some cases, the internal organs. Although an abnormal immune system response and the resulting production of excess collagen appears to be the main cause of limited scleroderma, researchers suspect that other factors may play a role, including: genetic factors, pregnancy, hormones, and environmental factors.

Question: What causes Brittle diabetes ?
Answer: What causes brittle diabetes? There are multiple causes of brittle diabetes. Emotional stress seems to play an important role, in some cases leading to hormonal inbalances which can lead to brittle diabetes. Emotional stress can also lead to a shift in the behavior of an individual, leading them to neglect their self-care. Other cases can be traced to physiological causes, including malabsorption, delayed gastric emptying due to autonomic neuropathy (gastroparesis), celiac disease, impaired glucose counterregulation (which doesn't allow the patient's body to react as it should when blood glucose levels drop), hypothyroidism and adrenal insufficiency, drug or alcohol use, systemic insulin resistance, and abnormal insulin absorption or degradation.

Question: What causes Congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens ?
Answer: What causes congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens (CBAVD)? More than half of all men with CBAVD have mutations in the CFTR gene. Mutations in this gene also cause cystic fibrosis. When CBAVD occurs with CFTR mutations, it is considered a form of atypical cystic fibrosis. In instances of CBAVD without a mutation in the CFTR gene, the cause of this condition is often unknown. Some cases are associated with other structural problems of the urinary tract.

Question: What causes Accessory navicular bone ?
Answer: What causes of accessory navicular bone? The cause of accessory navicular bone is unknown. In some cases, the condition may be related to the development of flatfoot also known as pes planus, in other cases it may be related to repeated foot and ankle sprains.

Question: What causes Glycogen storage disease type 4 ?
Answer: What causes glycogen storage disease type 4? Glycogen storage disease type 4 (GSD 4) is caused by mutations in the GBE1 gene. The GBE1 gene normally provides instructions for making the glycogen branching enzyme. This enzyme is necessary for making glycogen, a major source of stored energy in the body. Glycogen is formed by assembling many molecules of glucose. The glycogen branching enzyme is involved in the formation of "branches" of glucose chains, which help to make glycogen more compact for storage and allows it to break down more easily when it is needed for energy. The GBE1 gene mutations that cause GSD 4 lead to a decrease in the amount or functionality of the glycogen branching enzyme. Glycogen is then not formed properly, and substances called polyglucosan bodies build up in cells throughout the body, causing the signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: What causes Tarsal tunnel syndrome ?
Answer: What causes tarsal tunnel syndrome? There are a variety of factors that may cause tarsal tunnel syndrome. These may include repetitive stress with activities, trauma (e.g., crush injury, stretch injury, fractures, ankle dislocations or sprains), flat feet, and excess weight. Additionally, any lesion that occupies space within the tarsal tunnel region may cause pressure on the nerve and subsequent symptoms. Examples include tendonitis, hematoma, tumor, varicose veins, and lower extremity edema.

Question: What causes Dextrocardia with situs inversus ?
Answer: What causes dextrocardia with situs inversus? The exact cause of dextrocardia with situs inversus is not known, but the condition results from the abnormal positioning of the internal organs during fetal development. More than 60 known genes are important for the proper positioning and patterning of the organs in the body. However, a specific genetic cause of dextrocardia with situs inversus has not been identified and inheritance patterns have not been confirmed in most cases. Some people have dextrocardia with situs inversus as part of an underlying condition called primary ciliary dyskinesia. Primary ciliary dyskinesia can result from changes (mutations) in several different genes, including the DNAI1 and DNAH5 gene; however, the genetic cause is unknown in many families.

Question: What causes Hairy tongue ?
Answer: What causes hairy tongue? The exact cause is unknown; however, smoking, alcohol, dehydration, use of antibiotics, low saliva production, trigeminal neuralgia, poor oral hygiene and cranial radiation therapy have shown to bring about hairy tongue.

Question: What causes Localized scleroderma ?
Answer: What causes morphea? The exact cause of morphea is unknown. It is not infectious. It is not hereditary, though, similar problems may present in other family members. It's believed that a reaction of the immune system plays a role in the development of this rare condition. Experts have explored a possible connection between morphea and infection, such as measles or chickenpox, but recent research doesn't support this theory. Other factors that may be associated with the onset of morphea include radiation therapy or repeated trauma to the affected area.

Question: What causes Megalocytic interstitial nephritis ?
Answer: What causes malakoplakia? The cause of malakoplakia is unknown, but is thought to be associated with immunodeficiency or autoimmune disorders, such as hypogammaglobinlinemia, therapies that suppress the immune system, cancer, a chronic debilitating disorder, rheumatoid arthritis, and AIDS.

Question: What causes Sideroblastic anemia pyridoxine-refractory autosomal recessive ?
Answer: What causes sideroblastic anemia pyridoxine-refractory autosomal recessive? Sideroblastic anemia pyridoxine-refractory autosomal recessive is caused by mutations in the SLC25A38 gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion. Click here to learn more about autosomal recessive inheritance.

Question: What causes Multiple sclerosis ?
Answer: What causes multiple sclerosis? Studies suggest that there are many factors that influence whether a person will develop multiple sclerosis (MS). The factors that contribute to its onset are multiple and may vary from person to person. The signs and symptoms of MS occur as a result of inflammation, loss of the protective nerve covering (myelin), and the breakdown of nerve cells. The most widely accepted theory is that MS begins as an autoimmune disorder, where white blood cells (lymphocytes) attack healthy tissues. Later, signs and symptoms occur as a result of abnormal activity of specific cells in the brain and spinal cord (microglial cells) and progressive injury and loss of brain and spinal cord cells. Additional theories regarding the cause of MS include chronic viral infections and genetic disease. Although many viruses, and particularly the Epstein-Barr virus, have been associated with MS, there is no specific evidence linking viruses directly to the development of MS. Still, Epstein-Barr virus infection is considered a risk factor for the disease. Certain gene changes, including ones in HLA-DRB1 are associated with an increased risk for developing multiple sclerosis. However, it is unclear exactly what role these gene changes play in the development of MS. Having a first-degree relative with MS, like a parent or sibling, does increase a persons risk for the condition (to around 2%). Learn more about gene changes and MS. Vitamin D is another area of interest. Those who are exposed to more sunlight tend to have higher levels of naturally-produced vitamin D, which is thought to support the immune function and may help protect against immune-mediated diseases like MS. Further information on the cause of MS is available at the National Multiple Sclerosis Society Web site.

Question: What causes VLCAD deficiency ?
Answer: What causes VLCAD deficiency? VLCAD deficiency is caused by changes (mutations) in the ACADVL gene. This gene encodes an enzyme that is required for the proper break down (metabolism) of a certain group of fats called very long-chain fatty acids. Mutations in the ACADVL gene lead to reduced levels of this enzyme which prevents the proper metabolism of these fats. Because very long-chain fatty acids are an important source of energy, particularly for the heart and muscles, this may result in certain symptoms such as lethargy and hypoglycemia. Fats that are not properly broken down can also build-up and damage tissues such as the heart, liver, and muscles, which can cause the other features seen in people with VLCAD deficiency.

Question: What causes Erdheim-Chester disease ?
Answer: What causes Erdheim-Chester disease? The specific underlying cause of Erdheim-Chester disease is not known. It is not currently categorized as a cancer, infection or autoimmune disease. It it not believed to be contagious or genetic in nature.

Question: What causes Immunodeficiency with hyper IgM type 1 ?
Answer: What causes hyper IgM syndrome? A flawed gene (or genes) in T-cells (a type of white blood cell that is part of the immune system and helps the body fight diseases or harmful substances) is responsible for hyper IgM syndrome. The faulty T-cells do not give B-cells a signal they need to switch from making IgM to IgA and IgG. Most cases (approximately 70%) of hyper-IgM syndrome are linked to a recessive mutation on the X chromosome. These cases are inherited as an X-linked recessive genetic trait. Because males do not have a second, healthy, X-chromosome to offset the disease, boys far out number girls with this disease. A small number of cases of hyper IgM syndrome have been attributed to autosomal recessive and autosomal dominant genetic inheritance. In addition, a rare acquired form of the disorder has been described in the medical literature.

Question: What causes Alport syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Alport syndrome? Alport syndrome may be caused by mutations in either the COL4A3, COL4A4, or COL4A5 genes. These genes each provide instructions for making one component of a protein called type IV collagen, which plays an important role in the glomeruli of the kidneys. Glomeruli are clusters of specialized blood vessels that remove water and waste products from the blood and create urine. Mutations in the genes mentioned above result in abnormalities of the type IV collagen in glomeruli, which prevents the kidneys from properly filtering the blood. As a result, blood and protein pass into the urine. Over time, the kidneys become scarred and many people with Alport syndrome develop kidney failure. Type IV collagen is also an important component of the organ of Corti, an inner ear structure that transforms sound waves into nerve impulses for the brain. Alterations in type IV collagen may result in abnormal inner ear function, which can lead to hearing loss. In addition, type IV collagen plays a role in the eye, where it helps maintain the shape of the lens and the normal color of the retina. Mutations found in Alport syndrome may affect the shape of the lenses and the color of the retina.

Question: What causes TARP syndrome ?
Answer: What causes TARP syndrome? TARP syndrome is a genetic condition caused by mutations in the RBM10 gene, which is located on the X chromosome. There is little information available about how mutations in this gene specifically cause TARP syndrome. However, in 2010 researchers showed that the RBM10 gene is expressed in mouse embryos in the branchial arches (embryonic structures that give rise to parts of the head and neck) and limbs, which is consistent with body parts known to be affected in individuals with TARP syndrome. The signs and symptoms of TARP syndrome occur when this gene does not function correctly.

Question: What causes Freiberg's disease ?
Answer: What causes Freiberg's disease? The exact cause of Freiberg's disease is poorly understood. Some scientists believe that it is a multifactorial condition which is likely associated with the effects of multiple genes in combination with lifestyle and environmental factors. However, most current theories are centered on whether the triggering event is predominantly traumatic (injury-related) or vascular (consistent with avascular necrosis - an injury to the blood supply of the affected part of the foot).

Question: What causes Multifocal motor neuropathy ?
Answer: What causes multifocal motor neuropathy? The exact underlying cause of multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) is poorly understood. It is considered an immune-mediated disorder (due to an abnormal immune system response), both because IVIG therapy improves symptoms, and many patients have anti-GM1 antibodies. Research to further understand the cause of MMN is underway.

Question: What causes Tourette syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Tourette syndrome? Although the cause of Tourette syndrome is unknown, current research points to abnormalities in certain brain regions (including the basal ganglia, frontal lobes, and cortex), the circuits that interconnect these regions, and the neurotransmitters (dopamine, serotonin, and norepinephrine) responsible for communication among nerve cells. Given the often complex presentation of Tourette syndrome, the cause of the disorder is likely to be equally complex. In many cases, there is a family history of tics, Tourette Syndrome, ADHD, OCD. In 2005, scientists discovered the first gene mutation that may cause some cases of Tourette syndrome. This gene, named SLITRK1, is normally involved with the growth of nerve cells and how they connect with other neurons.  The mutated gene is located in regions of the brain (basal ganglia, cortex, and frontal lobes) previously identified as being associated with Tourette syndrome.

Question: What causes Hypophosphatasia ?
Answer: What causes hypophosphatasia? Hypophosphatasia (HPP) is a genetic condition caused by mutations in the ALPL gene. This gene gives the body instructions to make an enzyme called alkaline phosphatase, which is needed for mineralization of the bones and teeth. Mutations in this gene lead to an abnormal version of the enzyme, thus affecting the mineralization process. A shortage of the enzyme also causes other substances to build up in the body. These abnormalities lead to the features of HPP. ALPL mutations that almost completely eliminate alkaline phosphatase activity generally cause the more severe forms of HPP, while mutations that reduce activity to a lesser extent often cause the milder forms of HPP.

Question: What causes Mosaic trisomy 9 ?
Answer: What causes mosaic trisomy 9? Most cases of mosaic trisomy 9 occur due to a random event during the formation of the reproductive cells (egg and sperm) or after fertilization has taken place. An error in cell division (called nondisjunction) may cause some eggs or sperm to have an abnormal number of chromosomes. If an egg or sperm with an extra chromosome 9 contributes to the genetic makeup of an embryo, the embryo will have an extra copy of chromosome 9 in each cell. As the embryo grows and divides, an attempt may be made to correct the mistake by eliminating one extra chromosome 9. In people with mosaic trisomy 9, this attempt may be partly successful, leaving some cells with an extra chromosome 9 and some cells with the extra chromosome deleted (the usual chromosome number). This correction process is called trisomy rescue. In other cases, the egg and sperm may have a normal number of chromosomes, but an error of cell division (nondisjunction) occurs when the fertilized egg is growing and dividing. If an error occurs during one of the divisions, it can cause some cells to have an abnormal number of chromosomes. In people affected by mosaic trisomy 9, some of the body's cells have the usual two copies of chromosome 9, and other cells have three copies of this chromosome (trisomy). The percentage of cells with trisomy 9 and which parts of the body are affected vary from person to person. This leads to variability in the range and severity of symptoms. In rare cases, mosaic trisomy 9 is inherited from a parent with a chromosomal rearrangement called a "pericentric inversion." This occurs when a segment of chromosome 9 has broken off in two places, swiveled round 180 degrees and reinserted itself into the chromosome. If this rearrangement is considered "balanced," meaning the piece of chromosome is in a different order but no genetic material is gained or lost, it usually does not cause any symptoms or health problems. However, it can be associated with an increased risk of having children with an abnormal number or chromosomes.

Question: What causes VACTERL association ?
Answer: Is VACTERL association inherited, or does it have a genetic component? A specific, consistent, genetic abnormality has not been identified in individuals with VACTERL association. A very few sporadic cases of VACTERL association have been associated with mutations in FGF8, HOXD13, ZIC3, PTEN, FANCB, FOXF1, and TRAP1 genes and mitochondrial DNA. When a condition is defined as being an "association", it means that it is made up of a series of specific features which have been found to occur together more often than it would happen due to chance alone, but for which no specific cause has been determined (idiopathic). For indiviuals with VACTERL association, the risk for it to recur in either a sibling or a child is usually quoted as being around 1% (1 in 100). There are very few reports of recurrence of the VACTERL association in families in the literature. Researchers have stated that when dysmorphic features, growth abnormalities, and/or learning disability are present in addition to the features of VACTERL association, it may actually be due to a syndrome or chromosome abnormality; if this is the case, the recurrence risk for a family member would be the risk that is associated with that specific diagnosis. Genetic disorders which have features in common with VACTERL association include Feingold syndrome, CHARGE syndrome, Fanconi anemia, Townes-Brocks syndrome, and Pallister-Hall syndrome. It has also been recognized that there is a two to threefold increase in the incidence of multiple congenital malformations (with features that have overlapped with those of VACTERL association) in children of diabetic mothers.

Question: What causes Limbic encephalitis ?
Answer: What causes limbic encephalitis? In many patients limbic encephalitis is a paraneoplastic syndrome, which is most commonly associated with small cell lung cancer (SCLC), breast cancer, testicular tumors, teratomas, Hodgkin's lymphoma, and thymomas.  Out of the various cancers linked to limbic encephalitis, the typically associated tumors are SCLC, which are present in about 40% of patients that have the paraneoplastic form of limbic encephalitis.  Seminoma are present in 25% of patients.  At a lower rate, nearly any other tumor may be associated.  Limbic encephalitis can also occur in the absence of cancer such as in the case of an viral infection and systemic autoimmune disorders.  The underlying cause of limbic encephalitis is probably an autoimmune reaction which is brought about by cancer, tumors, infections, or autoimmune disorders.

Question: What causes Meesmann corneal dystrophy ?
Answer: What causes Meesmann corneal dystrophy? Meesmann corneal dystrophy is a genetic disease. It can be caused by mutations in either the KRT12 or KRT3 gene. These genes are thought to play an important role in maintaining normal corneal epithelial function. Meesmann corneal dystrophy is passed through families in an autosomal dominant fashion.

Question: What causes Complex regional pain syndrome ?
Answer: What causes complex regional pain syndrome? The underlying cause of complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) is not well understood. In most cases it occurs after an illness or injury that did not directly damage the nerves in the affected area (Type I). In some cases, it occurs after a specific nerve injury (Type II). The exact trigger of CRPS after an injury is not known, but it may be due to abnormal interactions between the central and peripheral nervous systems, and/or inappropriate inflammatory responses.

Question: What causes Septo-optic dysplasia ?
Answer: What causes septo-optic dysplasia? In most cases of septo-optic dysplasia, the cause of the disorder is unknown. Researchers suspect that a combination of genetic and environmental factors may play a role in causing this disorder. Proposed environmental risk factors include viral infections, specific medications, and a disruption in blood flow to certain areas of the brain during critical periods of development. At least three genes have been associated with septo-optic dysplasia, although mutations in these genes appear to be rare causes of this disorder. The three genes, HESX1, OTX2, and SOX2, all play important roles in embryonic development. In particular, they are essential for the formation of the eyes, the pituitary gland, and structures at the front of the brain (the forebrain) such as the optic nerves. Mutations in any of these genes disrupt the early development of these structures, which leads to the major features of septo-optic dysplasia. Researchers are looking for additional genetic changes that contribute to septo-optic dysplasia.

Question: What causes Hemangiopericytoma ?
Answer: What causes hemangiopericytoma? The cause of the disease is unknown, and no strong clinical data exist to indicate a convincing link to specific causes. Some reports suggest a relationship between hemangiopericytoma and occupational vinyl chloride exposure, as well as exposure to herbicides.

Question: What causes Gardner-Diamond syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Gardner-Diamond syndrome? The underlying cause of Gardner-Diamond syndrome (GDS) is poorly understood and has not been identified. Experts have proposed several possible explanations including: response to stress - stress, or distress, is associated with increased levels of glucocorticoids and catecholamines in the body, which may alter processes such as fibrinolysis (the breakdown of blood clots) increased fibrinolysis - an increase in the activity of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), which can cause a cascade of events that may lead to bleeding autoerythrocyte sensitization - an autoimmune reaction to the affected person's own red blood cells (erythrocytes)

Question: What causes Sneddon syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Sneddon syndrome? The cause of Sneddon syndrome is not well understood. It is possible that the syndrome has more than one cause (or way in which it may develop in a person). Some people develop Sneddon syndrome in association with other medical conditions such as obliterating vasculitis and antiphospholipid antibody syndrome. Most cases of Sneddon syndrome occur in people with no other family history of the condition, however there have been a few families with more than one member affected. A recent study found that in one family, Sneddon syndrome developed as a result of inheriting two changes in the CECR1 gene. In this family, Sneddon syndrome was inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion. Other case reports of familial Sneddon syndrome suggest an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.  It is not currently known if all familial cases are due to changes in CECR1.  Currently there is a research study titled, Genetics, Pathophysiology, and Treatment of Recessive Autoinflammatory Diseases, which is studying the effects of CECR1 gene mutations. The study lead is Dr. Daniel Kastner of the National Human Genome Research Institute. Click on the study title to learn more.

Question: What causes Thalassemia ?
Answer: What causes thalassemia? There are two main types of thalassemia, alpha thalassemia and beta thalassemia, which each affect a different part of hemoglobin (the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen). Hemoglobin is made up of two different components (subunits): beta globin and alpha globin. The HBB gene provides instructions for making beta globin, while the HBA1 and HBA2 genes provide instructions for making alpha globin. Each person has two copies of each of these genes, one inherited from the mother and one from the father. Changes (mutations) in the HBB gene lead to reduced levels of beta globin and cause beta thalassemia. Loss (deletion) of some or all of the HBA1 and/or HBA2 genes results in a shortage of alpha globin, leading to alpha thalassemia.

Question: What causes Stiff person syndrome ?
Answer: What causes stiff person syndrome? Scientists dont yet understand what causes stiff person syndrome, but research indicates that it is the result of an abnormal autoimmune response in the brain and spinal cord. Most people with stiff person syndrome have antibodies to glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), a protein in some nerve cells involved in making a substance called gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) that helps to control muscle movement. The symptoms of stiff person syndrome may develop when the immune system mistakenly attacks the neurons that produce GAD, leading to a deficiency of this protein in the body. The exact role that deficiency of GAD plays in the development of stiff person syndrome is not fully understood.

Question: What causes Lynch syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Lynch syndrome? Lynch syndrome is caused by mutations in at least 5 genes (MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, PMS2 or  EPCAM). All of these genes are involved in the repair of mistakes made when DNA is copied (DNA replication) in preparation for cell division. Mutations in any of these genes prevent the proper repair of DNA replication mistakes. As the abnormal cells continue to divide, the accumulated mistakes can lead to uncontrolled cell growth and possibly cancer. Although mutations in these genes predispose individuals to cancer, not all people who carry these mutations develop cancerous tumors.

Question: What causes Hypomyelination with atrophy of basal ganglia and cerebellum ?
Answer: What causes hypomyelination with atrophy of basal ganglia and cerebellum (H-ABC)? Hypomyelination with atrophy of basal ganglia and cerebellum (H-ABC) is caused by a mutation in the TUBB4A gene. The mutation usually occurs for the first time in a family as a result of a new mutation in the affected individual. The mutation is rarely inherited from a parent.

Question: What causes Prader-Willi syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Prader-Willi syndrome? Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is caused by the loss of active genes in a specific region of chromosome 15. People normally inherit one copy of chromosome 15 from each parent. Some genes on chromosome 15 are only active (or "expressed") on the copy that is inherited from a person's father (the paternal copy). When genes are only active if inherited from a specific parent, it is called genomic imprinting. About 70% of cases of PWS occur when a person is missing specific genes on the long arm of the paternal copy of chromosome 15. This is called a deletion. While there are copies of these same genes on the maternal copy of chromosome 15, the maternal copies of these genes are not expressed.   In about 25% of cases, PWS is due to a person inheriting only 2 maternal copies of chromosome 15, instead of one copy from each parent. This is called maternal uniparental disomy. Rarely (in about 2% of cases), PWS is caused by a rearrangement of chromosome material called a translocation, or by a change (mutation) or other defect that abnormally inactivates genes on the paternal chromosome 15. Each of these genetic changes result in a loss of gene function on part of chromosome 15, likely causing the characteristic features of PWS.

Question: What causes Amniotic band syndrome ?
Answer: What causes amniotic bands? Amniotic bands are caused by damage to a part of the placenta called the amnion. Damage to the amnion may produce fiber-like bands that can trap parts of the developing baby.

Question: What causes Essential tremor ?
Answer: What causes essential tremor? The causes of essential tremor are unknown. Researchers are studying several areas (loci) on particular chromosomes that may be linked to essential tremor, but no specific genetic associations have been confirmed. Several genes, as well as environmental factors, are likely involved in an individual's risk of developing this complex condition.

Question: What causes Erythromelalgia ?
Answer: What causes erythromelalgia? About 15% of cases of erythromelalgia are caused by mutations in the SCN9A gene. The SCN9A gene gives instructions for making part of a sodium channel which carries sodium into cells and helps them make and transmit electrical signals. These sodium channels are found in nerve cells that transmit pain signals to the spine and brain. Mutations that cause erythromelalgia cause increased transmission of pain signals, leading to the signs and symptoms of the condition. In some of these cases, an affected individual inherits the mutation from an affected parent. In other cases, a new mutation occurs for the first time in an individual with no history of the condition in the family. In the remainder of cases, the exact underlying cause is not currently known. Evidence suggests that it results from abnormalities in the normal narrowing and widening of certain blood vessels, leading to abnormalities in blood flow to the hands and feet. There may be a variety of non-genetic causes, or mutations in other genes that have not yet been identified.

Question: What causes Klebsiella infection ?
Answer: What causes Klebsiella infections? Klebsiella infections refer to several different types of healthcare-associated infections that are all caused by the Klebsiella bacteria. These bacteria are usually found in human intestines where they do not cause infections. To get a Klebsiella infection, a person must be exposed to the bacteria. For example, Klebsiella must enter the respiratory (breathing) tract to cause pneumonia, or the blood to cause a bloodstream infection. Most healthy people do not get Klebsiella infections. However, people who are hospitalized and receiving treatment for other conditions may be susceptible to these infections. Klebsiella bacteria are usually spread through person-to-person contact. In healthcare settings, people who require long courses of antibiotics and and people whose care requires the use of ventilators (breathing machines) or intravenous (vein) catheters are more at risk for Klebsiella infections. How are Klebsiella bacteria spread? To get a Klebsiella infection, a person must be exposed to the bacteria. For example, Klebsiella must enter the respiratory (breathing) tract to cause pneumonia or the blood to cause a bloodstream infection. In healthcare settings, Klebsiella bacteria can be spread through person-to-person contact or, less commonly, by contamination of the environment. It is not spread through the air. Patients in healthcare settings also may be exposed to Klebsiella when they are on ventilators (breathing machines), or have intravenous (vein) catheters or wounds (caused by injury or surgery). To prevent spreading Klebsiella infections between patients, healthcare personnel must follow specific infection control precautions. These precautions may include frequent hand washing and wearing gowns and gloves when entering the rooms of patients with Klebsiellarelated illnesses. Healthcare facilities should also follow strict cleaning procedures to prevent the spread of Klebsiella. If family members are healthy, they are at very low risk of acquiring a Klebsiella infection. It is still necessary to follow all precautions, particularly hand hygiene. Klebsiella bacteria are spread mostly by person-to-person contact and hand washing is the best way to prevent the spread of germs.

Question: What causes Diffuse gastric cancer ?
Answer: Can diffuse gastric cancer be caused by excessive drinking? Most of the time the exact cause of gastric cancer can not be determined; however there are many different factors that may put someone at an increased risk for developing stomach cancer. While it isn't clear if alcohol alone can increase this risk, it is thought that regular drinking may increase the risk in smokers. You can visit the following information pages develped by the National Cancer Insitute and Cancer Research UK to learn more about these risks. http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/wyntk/stomach/page4 http://www.cancerhelp.org.uk/help/default.asp?page=3903

Question: What causes Congenital hepatic fibrosis ?
Answer: What causes congenital hepatic fibrosis? Isolated congenital hepatic fibrosis is rare. Congenital hepatic fibrosis is usually associated with conditions known as hepatorenal fibrocystic diseases (FCD) that can also affect the kidneys. Examples of FCDs include polycystic kidney disease (PKD) and nephronophthisis (NPHP). FCDs can be inherited as autosomal recessive , autosomal dominant , or X-linked recessive disorders.

Question: What causes Trisomy 18 ?
Answer: What causes Trisomy 18? In most cases, trisomy 18 is caused by having 3 copies of chromosome 18 in each cell in the body, instead of the usual 2 copies. The extra genetic material from the 3rd copy of the chromosome disrupts development, causing the characteristic signs and symptoms of the condition. About 5% of people with trisomy 18 have 'mosaic trisomy 18' (when there is an extra copy of the chromosome in only some of the body's cells). The severity of mosaic trisomy 18 depends on the number and locations of cells with the extra copy. Very rarely, an extra piece of chromosome 18 is attached to another chromosome; this is called translocation trisomy 18, or partial trisomy 18. If only part of the long (q) arm of chromosome 18 is present in 3 copies, the features may be less severe than in people with full trisomy 18.

Question: What causes Adiposis dolorosa ?
Answer: What causes adiposis dolorosa? The exact cause of adiposis dolorosa remains unknown. While possible causes have been suggested, none have been confirmed. These include long-term treatment with high-dose corticosteroids; endocrine system abnormalities; and changes in fatty acid or carbohydrate metabolism. Researchers have also suggested that it could be an autoimmune disorder. Because the condition has rarely occurred in more than one person within a family, it may have a genetic component. However, no specific gene known to be associated with the condition has been identified. It is unknown why adiposis dolorosa usually occurs in people who are overweight or obese, or why the signs and symptoms do not appear until mid-adulthood.

Question: What causes Mitochondrial genetic disorders ?
Answer: What causes mitochondrial genetic disorders? Mitochondrial genetic disorders can be caused by changes (mutations) in either the mitochondrial DNA or nuclear DNA that lead to dysfunction of the mitochondria. Most DNA (hereditary material that is passed from parent to child) is packaged within the nucleus of each cell (known as nuclear DNA). However, mitochondria (the structures in each cell that produce energy) contain a small amount of their own DNA, which is known as mitochondrial DNA. When the mitochondria are not working properly, the body does not have enough energy to carry out its normal functions. This can lead to the variety of health problems associated with mitochondrial genetic disorders.

Question: What causes Wilson disease ?
Answer: What causes Wilson disease? Wilson disease is caused by changes (mutations) in the ATP7B gene. This gene encodes a protein that plays an important role in the transport of copper from the liver to the rest of the body. It also helps remove excess copper from the body. Mutations in the ATP7B gene prevent this protein from working properly, which can lead to an accumulation of copper in the body. Because high levels of copper are toxic, this buildup can damage tissues and organs and cause the many signs and symptoms of Wilson disease.

Question: What causes Townes-Brocks syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Townes-Brocks syndrome? Townes-Brocks syndrome is caused by mutations in the SALL1 gene. This gene is part of a group of genes called the SALL family. These genes provide instructions for making proteins that are involved in the formation of tissues and organs before birth. SALL proteins act as transcription factors, which means they attach (bind) to specific regions of DNA and help control the activity of particular genes. Some mutations in the SALL1 gene lead to the production of an abnormally short version of the SALL1 protein that malfunctions within the cell. Other mutations prevent one copy of the gene in each cell from making any protein. It is unclear how these genetic changes disrupt normal development and cause the  symptoms associated with Townes-Brocks syndrome.

Question: What causes Granuloma annulare ?
Answer: What causes granuloma annulare? The cause of granuloma annulare is unknown, although there is much evidence that it is linked to the immune system. It has been reported to follow insect bites; sun exposure; tuberculin skin tests, ingestion of allopurinol; trauma; and viral infections, including Epstein-Barr, HIV, hepatitis C, and herpes zoster. Occasionally, granuloma annulare may be associated with diabetes or thyroid disease.

Question: What causes Cholesteatoma ?
Answer: What causes cholesteatoma? A cholesteatoma usually occurs because of poor eustachian tube function in conjunction with infection in the middle ear. Negative pressure within the middle ear pulls a part of the eardrum the wrong way, creating a sac or cyst that fills with old skin cells and other waste material. As the cyst gets bigger, some of the middle ear bones break down, affecting hearing. A rare congenital form of cholesteatoma (one present at birth) can occur in the middle ear and elsewhere, such as in the nearby skull bones.

Question: What causes Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: What causes succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency? Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency (SSADH) is caused by mutations in the ALDH5A1 gene. This gene provides instructions for producing the succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase enzyme which is involved in the breakdown of a chemical that transmits signals in the brain (neurotransmitter) called gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA). The primary role of GABA is to prevent the brain from being overloaded with too many signals. A shortage (deficiency) of succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase leads to an increase in the amount of GABA and a related molecule called gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) in the body, particularly the brain and spinal cord (central nervous system). It is unclear how an increase in GABA and GHB causes developmental delay, seizures, and other signs and symptoms of succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency.

Question: What causes Hemorrhagic shock and encephalopathy syndrome ?
Answer: What causes hemorrhagic shock and encephalopathy syndrome? The cause of hemorrhagic shock and encephalopathy syndrome is unknown. Some researchers believe that this condition is caused by a complex combination of genetic and environmental factors. Researchers have proposed various factors that may contribute to the development of this condition, including infection, exposure to toxins in the environment, and overwrapping of infants with a fever. Hemorrhagic shock and encephalopathy syndrome has not been reported to be associated with a specific ethnic group or religious background.

Question: What causes Lichen planus pigmentosus ?
Answer: What causes lichen planus pigmentosus? The exact underlying cause of lichen planus pigmentosus is currently unknown. However, studies suggest that the condition may be triggered by viral infections, UV light or the application of certain oils on the hair or skin (i.e. mustard oil, amla oil).

Question: What causes Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome? Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome (NCBRS) is caused by mutations in the SMARCA2 gene, which is located on the small arm of chromosome 9. All mutations that have been identified in affected people have been either missense mutations or in-frame deletions. There may be some correlations between specific types of mutations and some of the features that result (called genotype-phenotype correlations), but more studies are needed to draw definitive conclusions.

Question: What causes Cramp-fasciculation syndrome ?
Answer: What causes cramp-fasciculation syndrome? In many cases, the exact underlying cause of cramp-fasciculation syndrome (CFS) is unknown (idiopathic). In general, it is thought to be related to abnormal excitability (overactivity) of peripheral neurons. Some cases of CFS are associated with: Genetic disorders Autoimmune conditions Peripheral neuropathy Anterior-horn-cell disease Metabolic abnormalities

Question: What causes Isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: What causes isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (IBD deficiency)? IBD deficiency is caused by mutations in the ACAD8 gene. The ACAD8 gene provides instructions for making an enzyme that plays an essential role in breaking down proteins from the diet. Specifically, the enzyme is responsible for processing valine, an amino acid that is part of many proteins. If a mutation in the ACAD8 gene reduces or eliminates the activity of this enzyme, the body is unable to break down valine properly. As a result, poor growth and reduced energy production may occur.

Question: What causes Hypokalemic periodic paralysis ?
Answer: What causes hypokalemic periodic paralysis? Hypokalemic periodic paralysis is caused by mutations in the CACNA1S and SCN4A genes. The CACNA1S and SCN4A genes provide instructions for making proteins that play an essential role in muscles used for movement (skeletal muscles). For the body to move normally, these muscles must tense (contract) and relax in a coordinated way. Muscle contractions are triggered by the flow of certain positively charged atoms (ions) into muscle cells. The CACNA1S and SCN4A proteins form channels that control the flow of these ions. The channel formed by the CACNA1S protein transports calcium ions into cells, while the channel formed by the SCN4A protein transports sodium ions. Mutations in the CACNA1S or SCN4A gene alter the usual structure and function of calcium or sodium channels. The altered channels cannot properly regulate the flow of ions into muscle cells, which reduces the ability of skeletal muscles to contract. Because muscle contraction is needed for movement, a disruption in normal ion transport leads to episodes of severe muscle weakness or paralysis. A small percentage of people with the characteristic features of hypokalemic periodic paralysis do not have identified mutations in the CACNA1S or SCN4A gene. In these cases, the cause of the condition is unknown.

Question: What causes Hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer ?
Answer: What causes hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer? Hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer (HLRCC) is caused by changes (mutations) in the FH gene. This gene gives the body instructions for making an enzyme called fumarase which is needed for a series of reactions that lets cells use oxygen and energy (the citric acid cycle, or Krebs cycle). People with HLRCC are born with one mutated copy of the FH gene in each cell. The second copy of the gene in some cells can mutate later on from factors in the environment, such as radiation from the sun or an error during cell division. A mutation can interfere with fumarase's role in the citric acid cycle, which may affect the regulation of oxygen levels in cells. Long-term oxygen deficiency in cells with two mutated copies of the FH gene may contribute to tumors growth and the tendency to develop leiomyomas and/or renal cell cancer.

Question: What causes Merkel cell carcinoma ?
Answer: What causes Merkel cell carcinoma? The exact underlying cause of Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is unknown, but several risk factors have been associated with the development of MCC. Having one or more risk factors does not mean that a person will develop MCC; most individuals with risk factors will not develop MCC. Risk factors include:     -being over 50 years of age     -having fair skin     -having a history of extensive sun exposure (natural or artificial)     -having chronic immune suppression, such as after organ transplantation or having HIV Researchers have also found that a virus called Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCPyV) is frequently involved in the development of MCC. MCPyV is found in about 80% of tumor cells tested. This virus is thought to alter the DNA in such a way that influences tumor development.

Question: What causes Norum disease ?
Answer: What causes Norum disease? Norum disease is caused by defects in the LCAT gene. The clinical manifestations of LCAT deficiency are probably due to a defect in LCAT-mediated cholesterol ester formation and, therefore, accumulation of unesterified cholesterol in certain tissues, such as the cornea, kidneys, and erythrocytes (red blood cells).

Question: What causes Multiple familial trichoepithelioma ?
Answer: What causes multiple familial trichoepithelioma? Multiple familial trichoepithelioma is thought to be inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion with reduced penetrance. Autosomal dominant means that a single mutation in one copy of a gene is sufficient to cause the condition. Reduced penetrance means that not everyone with the gene mutation will develop symptoms of the condition. Multiple familial trichoepithelioma can be caused by mutations in the CYLD gene which is found on chromosome 16 or by a mutation on a gene on chromsome 9 that has yet to be identified.

Question: What causes Dominant dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa ?
Answer: What causes dominant dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa? Dominant dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (DDEB) is caused by mutations in the COL7A1 gene. The COL7A1 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is used to assemble type VII collagen. Collagen gives structure and strength to connective tissues, such as skin, tendons, and ligaments, throughout the body. Type VII collagen plays an important role in strengthening and stabilizing the skin. It is the main component of structures called anchoring fibrils, which anchor the top layer of skin, called the epidermis, to an underlying layer called the dermis. COL7A1 mutations alter the structure or disrupt the production of type VII collagen, which impairs its ability to help connect the epidermis to the dermis. When type VII collagen is abnormal or missing, friction or other minor trauma can cause the two skin layers to separate. This separation leads to the formation of blisters, which can cause extensive scarring as they heal. A diagram of the skin structure including the area of skin implicated in DDEB is provided by the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases. Click on the link for more.

Question: What causes Achondroplasia ?
Answer: What causes achondroplasia? Achondroplasia is caused by mutations in the FGFR3 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that is involved in the development and maintenance of bone and brain tissue. Two specific mutations in the FGFR3 gene are responsible for almost all cases of achondroplasia. Researchers believe that these mutations cause the FGFR3 protein to be overly active, which interferes with skeletal development and leads to the disturbances in bone growth seen in this condition.

Question: What causes Lucey-Driscoll syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Lucey-Driscoll syndrome? Lucey-Driscoll syndrome is caused by high levels of a bilirubin "conjugating enzyme inhibitor which is a substance that limits the ability of bilirubin to bind to an enzyme. When bilirubin does not bind efficiently, it builds up in the bloodstream. This inhibitor is thought to occur in the blood (serum) of pregnant women, and it likely blocks the enzyme activity necessary for the development of the fetal liver.  Familial cases may result from the pregnant woman having a mutation in the uridine diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferase gene(UGT1A1).

Question: What causes Lambert Eaton myasthenic syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Lambert Eaton myasthenic syndrome? Lambert Eaton myasthenic syndrome is the result of an autoimmune process which causes a disruption of electrical impulses between nerve cells and muscle fibers. In cases where Lambert Eaton myasthenic syndrome appears in association with cancer, the cause may be that the bodys attempt to fight the cancer inadvertently causes it to attack nerve fiber endings, especially the voltage-gated calcium channels found there. The trigger for the cases not associated with cancer is unknown.

Question: What causes Hereditary diffuse leukoencephalopathy with spheroids ?
Answer: What causes hereditary diffuse leukoencephalopathy with spheroids (HDLS)? HDLS is caused by mutations in the CSF1R gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called colony stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF-1 receptor), which is found in the outer membrane of certain types of cells. The CSF-1 receptor triggers signaling pathways that control many important cellular processes, such as cell growth and division (proliferation) and maturation of the cell to take on defined functions (differentiation). Mutations in the CSF1R gene lead to a altered CSF-1 receptor protein which is unable to stimulate cell signaling pathways. Exactly how these gene mutations cause the signs and symptoms of HDLS is unknown.

Question: What causes 17q23.1q23.2 microdeletion syndrome ?
Answer: What causes 17q23.2q23.2 microdeletion syndrome? The syndrome is caused by an interstitial deletion (a deletion that does not involve the ends of a chromosome) encompassing bands 23.1 to 23.2 on the long (q) arm of chromosome 17. Two transcription factors, TBX2 and TBX4, which belong to a family of genes implicated in a variety of developmental pathways including those of heart and limbs, are found within this 2.2Mb region. This suggests that they may play a part in the symptoms seen in this condition.

Question: What causes Pemphigus vulgaris ?
Answer: What causes pemphigus vulgaris? Pemphigus vulgaris is an autoimmune disorder. The immune system produces antibodies against specific proteins in the skin and mucous membranes. These antibodies create a reaction that cause skin cells to separate. Although it is rare, some cases of pemphigus vulgaris are caused by certain medications. Medications that may cause this condition include: Blood pressure medications called ACE inhibitors Chelating agents such as penicillamine, which remove certain materials from the blood While in many cases the exact cause of pemphigus vulgaris remains unknown, several potentially relevant factors have been identified. Genetic factors: Predisposition to pemphigus is linked to genetic factors.Certain major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules, in particular alleles of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) DR4, appear to confer susceptibility to pemphigus vulgaris. Age: Peak age of onset is from 50-60 years. Infants with neonatal pemphigus typically recover after protection from their mother's antibodies have cleared their systems. The disease may, nonetheless, develop in children or in older persons, as well. Disease association: Pemphigus commonly occurs in individuals who also have other autoimmune diseases, particularly myasthenia gravis and thymoma. Pemphigus is not contagious. It does not spread from person to person. Though there can be a genetic predisposition to develop pemphigus, there is no indication the disease is hereditary.

Question: What causes Turner syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Turner syndrome? Turner syndrome is caused by partial or complete loss of one of the X chromosomes in cells of females. Females without Turner syndrome have 2 full X chromosome in all of their cells (and males have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome). The missing genetic material affects development before and after birth. Most females with Turner syndrome are missing a full X chromosome in all of their cells (also called monosomy X). This form results from a random error in an egg or sperm cell prior to conception. Some females with Turner syndrome have two X chromosomes, but one of them is missing a piece (has a deletion). Depending on the specific gene(s) that are missing, the features of Turner syndrome may result. A deletion may occur sporadically (not inherited) or may be inherited from a parent. Mosaic Turner syndrome (when some cells have one X chromosome and some have two sex chromosomes) is caused by a random error in early fetal development (shortly after conception). It is still unclear exactly which genes on the X chromosome are associated with each feature of Turner syndrome. It is known that the SHOX gene on the X chromosome is important for growth and bone development. A missing copy of this gene is thought to result in the short stature and skeletal abnormalities in many affected women.

Question: What causes Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease ?
Answer: What causes Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease? Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease is caused by mutations in the PLP1 gene. This gene provides instructions for producing proteolipid protein 1 and a modified version (isoform) of proteolipid protein 1, called DM20. Proteolipid protein 1 and DM20 are primarily located in the central nervous system and are the main proteins found in myelin, the fatty covering that insulates nerve fibers. A lack of proteolipid protein 1 and DM20 can cause dysmyelination, which can impair nervous system function, resulting in the signs and symptoms of Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease. It is estimated that 5 percent to 20 percent of people with Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease do not have identified mutations in the PLP1 gene. In these cases, the cause of the condition is unknown.

Question: What causes Primrose syndrome ?
Answer: What causes primrose syndrome? The cause of primrose syndrome is currently unknown. Cases of affected males and a affected female have been reported in the literature. All cases seem to be sporadic. Sporadic refers to either a genetic disorder that occurs for the first time in a family due to a new mutation or the chance occurrence of a non-genetic disorder or abnormality that is not likely to recur in a family.

Question: What causes Megalencephaly, polymicrogyria, and hydrocephalus (MPPH) syndrome ?
Answer: What causes megalencephaly, polymicrogyria, and hydrocephalus (MPPH) syndrome? The cause of MPPH syndrome is unknown. Infection during pregnancy or fetal accident is thought to be unlikely.

Question: What causes Juvenile primary lateral sclerosis ?
Answer: What causes juvenile primary lateral sclerosis? Juvenile primary lateral sclerosis is caused by mutations in the ALS2 gene. The ALS2 gene provides instructions for making a protein called alsin. Alsin is abundant in motor neurons, but its function is not fully understood. Mutations in the ALS2 gene alter the instructions for producing alsin. As a result, alsin is unstable and decays rapidly, or it is disabled and cannot function properly. It is unclear how the loss of functional alsin protein damages motor neurons and causes juvenile primary lateral sclerosis.

Question: What causes Sarcoidosis ?
Answer: What causes sarcoidosis? No one yet knows what causes sarcoidosis. It is thought by most scientists to be a disorder of the immune system, where the body's natural defense system malfunctions. Some physicians believe that sarcoidosis may result from a respiratory infection caused by a virus. Others suspect that exposure to toxins or allergens in the environment is to blame. It's also possible that some people have a genetic predisposition to developing sarcoidosis, which, when combined with an environmental trigger, produces the disease. Studies are ongoing to investigate the genetic and environmental components of this disease.

Question: What causes Anencephaly ?
Answer: What causes anencephaly? The underlying cause of anencephaly is not fully understood. Like other forms of neural tube defects (NTDs), anencephaly is likely caused by the interaction of multiple genes and environmental factors, many of which remain unknown. Variations in many genes may influence the risk of developing anencephaly. The best-studied gene thus far is the MTHFR gene, which gives the body instructions to make a protein used to process the vitamin folate (also called vitamin B9). A deficiency of folate is a known risk factor for NTDs. Other genes involved in folate processing, and the development of the neural tube, may also affect the risk. Researchers have also looked at environmental factors that could contribute to the risk of anencephaly. Folate appears to play a significant role, and studies have shown that taking folic acid (a form of folate), before getting pregnant and very early in pregnancy, significantly reduces the risk to have a baby with a NTD. Other possible maternal risk factors for anencephaly include diabetes mellitus; obesity; exposure to high heat (such as a fever or use of a hot tub or sauna) in early pregnancy; and the use of certain anti-seizure medications during pregnancy.

Question: What causes Glioblastoma ?
Answer: What causes glioblastoma? In most cases, the exact underlying cause of glioblastoma is unknown. In rare cases, they can occur in people with certain genetic syndromes such as neurofibromatosis type 1, Turcot syndrome and Li Fraumeni syndrome. In these cases, affected people usually have other characteristic features of the condition that are all caused by changes (mutations) in a specific gene.

Question: What causes Medullary cystic kidney disease ?
Answer: What causes medullary cystic kidney disease? There are 2 types of MCKD, which are both inherited in an autosomal dominant manner but are caused by mutations in different genes. MCKD 1 is caused by mutations in the MCKD1 gene (which has not yet been identified) and MCKD 2 is caused by mutations in the UMOD gene. Exposure to seizure medication is not a known cause medullary cystic kidney disease.

Question: What causes Hereditary spherocytosis ?
Answer: What causes hereditary spherocytosis? Hereditary spherocytosis may be caused by mutations in any one of several genes. The mutations that cause the condition result in the formation of spherical, overly rigid, misshapen red blood cells. The misshapen red blood cells, called spherocytes, are removed from circulation and taken to the spleen for destruction. Within the spleen, the red blood cells break down (undergo hemolysis). The shortage of red blood cells in the blood circulation and the abundance of cells in the spleen are responsible for the signs and symptoms of this condition.  Mutations in the ANK1 gene are responsible for about half of all cases of hereditary spherocytosis. The other genes associated with hereditary spherocytosis account for a smaller percentage of cases and include the EPB42, SLC4A1, SPTA1, and SPTB genes.

Question: What causes Chandler's syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Chandler's syndrome? The underlying cause of Chandler's syndrome is unknown. Some researchers suspect that inflammation or chronic viral infection may play a role in the development of this condition.  Chandler's syndrome develops when the endothelium, the single layer of cells lining the inside of the surface of the cornea, fails to pump the aqueous humor from the cornea. This allows fluid to accumulate in the cornea (corneal edema), leading to blurred vision.

Question: What causes Mucopolysaccharidosis type I ?
Answer: What causes mucopolysaccharidosis I (MPS I)? Mutations in the IDUA gene cause MPS I. The IDUA gene provides instructions for producing an enzyme that is involved in the breakdown of large sugar molecules called glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). Mutations in the IDUA gene reduce or completely eliminate the function of the IDUA enzyme. The lack of IDUA enzyme activity leads to the accumulation of GAGs within cells, specifically inside the lysosomes. Lysosomes are compartments in the cell that digest and recycle different types of molecules. Conditions that cause molecules to build up inside the lysosomes, including MPS I, are called lysosomal storage disorders. The accumulation of GAGs increases the size of the lysosomes, which is why many tissues and organs are enlarged in this disorder.

Question: What causes Multifocal choroiditis ?
Answer: What causes multifocal choroiditis? Multifocal choroiditis occurs spontaneously and the cause is not currently known (idiopathic). It is possible that a bacterial or viral infection may trigger an immune response that causes the inflammation seen with MFC, though more research is needed in this area.

Question: What causes Progeria ?
Answer: What genes are related to Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome? Mutations in the LMNA gene cause Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome. The LMNA gene provides instructions for making a protein called lamin A. This protein plays an important role in determining the shape of the nucleus within cells. It is an essential scaffolding (supporting) component of the nuclear envelope, which is the membrane that surrounds the nucleus. Mutations that cause Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome result in the production of an abnormal version of the lamin A protein. The altered protein makes the nuclear envelope unstable and progressively damages the nucleus, making cells more likely to die prematurely. Researchers are working to determine how these changes lead to the characteristic features of Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome.

Question: What causes Leukonychia totalis ?
Answer: What causes leukonychia totalis? Leukonychia totalis (also called total leukonychia) is thought to be due to abnormal keratinization (conversion into keratin) of the nail plate. Keratin is a protein that is a major component of the epidermis (outer layer of skin), hair, nails, and horny tissues. The condition is usually inherited, following either an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive inheritance pattern. These inherited forms can be caused by mutations in the PLCD1 gene. In some cases, leukonychia occurs in association with other underlying abnormalities or syndromes. Conditions that have been reported include palmoplantar keratoderma; certain types of cysts; severe keratosis pilaris; pili torti; hypotrichosis (lack of hair growth); onychorrhexis (brittle nails); koilonychia (spoon-shaped nails); Bart-Pumphrey syndrome; and Buschkell-Gorlin syndrome, when it occurs with sebaceous cysts and kidney stones. It has also reportedly been associated with typhoid fever, leprosy, cirrhosis, nail biting, trichinosis, and cytotoxic drugs (drugs that are toxic to cells). In a few cases, the cause of leukonychia is unknown (idiopathic).

Question: What causes Esthesioneuroblastoma ?
Answer: What causes esthestioneuroblastoma? The cause of esthesioneuroblastoma is currently unknown.

Question: What causes Platelet storage pool deficiency ?
Answer: What causes platelet storage pool deficiency? Platelet storage pool deficiency refers to a group of conditions that are caused by problems with the platelet granules. Platelet granules are tiny storage sacs found within the platelets which release various substances to help stop bleeding. Some platelet storage pool deficiencies are due to reduced or absent granules or granule contents. Others occur if the platelets are unable to empty the contents of the platelet granules into the bloodstream.  Platelet storage pool deficiencies can be genetic or acquired (non-genetic). The four major genetic forms include dense body deficiency, gray platelet syndrome, Factor V Quebec, and mixed alpha-granule/dense body deficiency. Platelet storage pool deficiency is also a feature of several inherited conditions such as Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome, Chediak-Higashi syndrome, thrombocytopenia-absent radius (TAR) syndrome, and Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome. Causes of acquired platelet storage pool deficiencies include: Systemic lupus erythematosus Cardiovascular bypass Hairy-cell leukemia

Question: What causes Leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter ?
Answer: What causes leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter? Leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter is a genetic condition caused by mutations in any of 5 genes - EIF2B1, EIF2B2, EIF2B3, EIF2B4, and EIF2B5. These genes give the body instructions to make the five parts (subunits) of a protein called eIF2B. This protein helps regulate overall production of protein in cells (protein synthesis). Proper regulation of protein synthesis ensures that the correct levels of protein are available for cells to cope with changing conditions and stress. Mutations in any of these 5 genes results in partial loss of eIF2B function, making it more difficult for cells to regulate protein synthesis and deal with changing conditions and stress. Researchers believe that cells in the white matter may be particularly affected by an abnormal response to stress, thus causing the signs and symptoms of this condition. Approximately 90% of affected people have been found to have mutations in one of these 5 genes. Approximately 10% of families who have been diagnosed by MRI and clinical features do not have an identifiable mutation, suggesting that additional genes may also be responsible for the condition.

Question: What causes Transposition of the great arteries ?
Answer: What causes transposition of the great arteries (TGA)? The exact cause of TGA remains unknown. Some possible associated risk factors that have been proposed include gestational diabetes mellitus, maternal exposure to rodenticides and herbicides, and maternal use of anti-epileptic drugs. Changes (mutations) in specific genes including the GDF1, CFC1 and MED13L (also called THRAP2) genes have been implicated in only a small minority of TGA cases.

Question: What causes Best vitelliform macular dystrophy ?
Answer: What causes Best vitelliform macular dystrophy? Best vitelliform macular dystrophy (BVMD) is caused by changes (mutations) in the BEST1 gene. This gene gives the body instructions for making a protein called bestrophin. Bestrophin acts as a channel that controls the movement of chloride ions within the retina. It is thought that mutations in the BEST1 gene affect the shape of the channel and its ability to properly regulate the flow of chloride. However, it is unclear how exactly this relates to the specific features of BVMD.

Question: What causes Hirschsprung's disease ?
Answer: What causes Hirschsprung disease? There are a number of different causes of Hirschsprung disease (HSCR). For example, HSCR may occur as: A part of a syndrome In association with a chromosome anomaly (such as trisomy 21 or Down syndrome)  Along with other birth defects but not as a part of a known syndrome As an isolated condition

Question: What causes Binswanger's disease ?
Answer: What causes Binswanger's disease? Binswanger's disease occurs when the blood vessels that supply the deep structures of the brain become obstructed (blocked). As the arteries become more and more narrowed, the blood supplied by those arteries decreases and brain tissue dies. This can be caused by atherosclerosis, thromboembolism (blood clots) and other diseases such as CADASIL. Risk factors for Binswanger's disease include: Hypertension Smoking Hypercholesterolemia Heart disease Diabetes mellitus

Question: What causes Wolfram syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Wolfram syndrome? There are two types of Wolfram syndrome (type 1 and type 2) which are primarily differentiated by their genetic cause. Changes (mutations) in the WFS1 gene are responsible for approximately 90% of Wolfram syndrome type 1 cases. This gene encodes wolframin, a protein that is important for the proper functioning of the endoplasmic reticulum (the part of a cell that is involved in protein production, processing, and transport). Wolframin helps regulate the amount of calcium in cells, which is important for many different cellular functions. Mutations in WFS1 result in a defective form of wolframin that is unable to perform its normal role. This causes cells to trigger their own death (apoptosis). The death of cells in various organs and other parts of the body results in the signs and symptoms of Wolfram syndrome type 1. A specific mutation in the CISD2 gene causes Wolfram syndrome type 2. Although the exact function of this gene is not known, scientists suspect that it plays an important role in the mitochondria (the part of the cell where energy is produced). Mutations in CISD2 lead to the loss of mitochondria which decreases the amount of energy available to cells. Cells that do not have enough energy die. As in Wolfram syndrome type 1, the death of cells in different parts of the body results in the many health problems associated with Wolfram syndrome type 2. Mutations in mitochondrial DNA may also be a rare cause of Wolfram syndrome in some families.

Question: What causes Peutz-Jeghers syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Peutz-Jeghers syndrome? Peutz-Jeghers syndrome (PJS) is caused by changes (mutations) in the STK11 gene. STK11 is a tumor suppressor gene which means that it encodes a protein that helps keep cells from growing and dividing too rapidly or in an uncontrolled way. Mutations in STK11 result in a defective protein that is unable to carry out its normal role. This leads to the development of the polyps and tumors found in PJS. Some people with PJS do not have mutations in the STK11 gene. In these cases, the cause is unknown.

Question: What causes Diabetic mastopathy ?
Answer: What causes diabetic mastopathy? The cause of diabetic mastopathy is unknown. Theories include an autoimmune reaction, genetic factors such as human leukocyte antigen (HLA) type, association with insulin therapy, and association with hyperglycemia.

Question: What causes Hemolytic uremic syndrome ?
Answer: What causes hemolytic uremic syndrome? Hemolytic uremic syndrome often occurs after a gastrointestinal infections with E. coli bacteria (Escherichia coli 0157:H7). The condition has also been linked to other gastrointestinal infections, including shigella and salmonella, as well as infections outside of the gastrointestinal system. The condition results when the bacteria lodge in the digestive tract and produce toxins that can enter the bloodstream. The toxins travel through the bloodstream and can destroy blood cells, causing acute kidney injury.

Question: What causes Intervertebral disc disease ?
Answer: What causes intervertebral disc disease? Intervertebral disc disease (IDD) is a multifactorial disorder, which means that both genetic and environmental factors probably interact to predispose an individual to the condition. It is likely that several factors are needed for development of IDD. Factors such as occupational stress, trauma, or obesity, together with genetic alterations, may result in the structural weakness of a disc, cause a herniation, and possibly initiate a cascade of events leading to sciatica and pathological disc changes. One of the best-known environmental risk factors for IDD is vibration in occupational driving. Inflammation is also likely to play an important role in the progression of this process.

Question: What causes Langerhans cell histiocytosis ?
Answer: What causes Langerhans cell histiocytosis? The cause of Langerhans cell histiocytosis is unknown. It may be triggered by an unusual reaction of the immune system to something commonly found in the environment. It is not considered to be an infection or cancer. It is not known to be hereditary or communicable.

Question: What causes Angelman syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Angelman syndrome? Angelman syndrome is caused by a loss of function of a gene called UBE3A on chromosome 15. The exact mechanism that causes this loss of function is complex. People normally inherit one copy of the UBE3A gene from each parent. Both copies of this gene are turned on (active) in many of the body's tissues. In certain areas of the brain, however, only the copy inherited from a person's mother is active. This parent-specific gene activation is known as genomic imprinting. If the maternal copy of the UBE3A gene is lost because of a chromosomal change or a gene mutation, a person will have no active copies of the gene in some parts of the brain. Several different genetic mechanisms can inactivate or delete the maternal copy of the UBE3A gene. Most cases of Angelman syndrome occur when a segment of the maternal chromosome 15 containing this gene is deleted. In other cases, Angelman syndrome is caused by a mutation in the maternal copy of the UBE3A gene. In a small percentage of cases, a person with Angelman syndrome inherits two copies of chromosome 15 from his or her father, instead of one copy from each parent. This is called paternal uniparental disomy. Rarely, Angelman syndrome can also be caused by a chromosomal rearrangement called a translocation, or by a mutation or other defect in the region of DNA that controls activation of the UBE3A gene. These genetic changes can abnormally turn off (inactivate) UBE3A or other genes on the maternal copy of chromosome 15. The cause of Angelman syndrome is unknown in 10 to 15 percent of affected individuals. Changes involving other genes or chromosomes may be responsible for the condition in these individuals.

Question: What causes Congenital radio-ulnar synostosis ?
Answer: What causes congenital radio-ulnar synostosis? Congenital radio-ulnar synostosis is caused by abnormal development of the forearm bones in the fetal period, although the underlying cause of the developmental abnormality is not always known. The condition may be isolated (occur without other abnormalities) or it may be associated with various other skeletal, cardiac (heart), neurologic, or gastrointestinal abnormalities. When other abnormalities are present, the condition may be due to an underlying genetic cause, including a variety of syndromes or chromosome abnormalities. In some cases, congenital radio-ulnar synostosis appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. In an article published in 2000, the authors found that autosomal dominant radio-ulnar synostosis with amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia was caused by mutations in the HOXA11 gene in 2 families.

Question: What causes Harlequin ichthyosis ?
Answer: What causes harlequin ichthyosis? Harlequin ichthyosis is caused by mutations in the ABCA12 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that is essential for the normal development of skin cells. This protein plays a major role in the transport of fats (lipids) in the outermost layer of skin (the epidermis). Some mutations in the ABCA12 gene prevent the cell from making any ABCA12 protein, while others lead to the production of an abnormally small version of the protein that cannot transport lipids properly. A loss of functional ABCA12 protein disrupts the normal development of the epidermis, resulting in the hard, thick scales characteristic of harlequin ichthyosis.

Question: What causes Castleman disease ?
Answer: What causes Castleman disease? The exact underlying cause of Castleman disease (CD) is poorly understood. However, some scientists suspect that an increased production of interleukin-6 (IL-6) by the immune system may contribute to the development of CD. IL-6 is a substance normally produced by cells within the lymph nodes that helps coordinate the immune response to infection. Increased production of IL-6 may result in an overgrowth of lymphatic cells, leading to many of the signs and symptoms of CD. It has also been found that a virus called human herpes virus type 8 (also known as HHV-8, Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus, or KSHV) is present in many people with multicentric CD, specifically. HHV-8 is found in nearly all people who are HIV-positive and develop multicentric CD, and in up to 60% of affected people without HIV. The HHV-8 virus may possibly cause multicentric CD by making its own IL-6.

Question: What causes Lymphomatoid papulosis ?
Answer: What causes lymphomatoid papulosis? The cause of lymphomatoid papulosis is unknown, but it is associated with a proliferation of atypical T-cells. T-cells are specific white blood cells involved in immune responses.

Question: What causes Erythropoietic protoporphyria ?
Answer: What is the genetic basis of erythropoietic protoporphyria? Erythropoietic protoporphyria is caused by mutations in the FECH gene.

Question: What causes Fine-Lubinsky syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Fine-Lubinsky syndrome? The cause of Fine-Lubinsky syndrome remains unknown. With the exception of one family report of an affected brother and sister (suggesting an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern), all other cases have been sporadic (occurring in people with no family history of FLS). Additional reports are needed to identify a possible genetic cause of FLS. While karyotypes (pictures of chromosomes) were reportedly normal in affected people, the presence of a very small chromosomal rearrangement (too small to detect with a karyotype) as a possible cause for FLS has not been ruled out.

Question: What causes Mowat-Wilson syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Mowat-Wilson syndrome? Mowat-Wilson syndrome is caused by mutations in the ZEB2 (also known as ZFHX1B or SIP-1) gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that plays a critical role in the formation of many organs and tissues before birth. It is a transcription factor, which means that it attaches (binds) to specific regions of DNA and helps control the activity of particular genes. Researchers believe that ZEB2 protein is involved in the development of tissues that give rise to the nervous system, digestive tract, facial features, heart, and other organs. Mowat-Wilson syndrome almost always results from the loss of one working copy of the ZEB2 gene in each cell. In some cases, the entire gene is deleted. In other cases, mutations within the gene lead to the production of an abnormally short, nonfunctional version of the ZEB2 protein. A shortage of this protein disrupts the normal development of many organs and tissues, which causes the varied signs and symptoms of Mowat-Wilson syndrome.

Question: What causes Abetalipoproteinemia ?
Answer: What causes abetalipoproteinemia? Abetalipoproteinemia is caused by changes (mutations) in the MTTP gene. The MTTP gene gives the body instructions to make a protein needed for creating beta-lipoproteins. These lipoproteins are necessary for the body to absorb fats, cholesterol, and fat-soluble vitamins (vitamins A, D, E and K), and for transporting these substances in the blood. Mutations in the MTTP result in a lack of beta-lipoproteins, leading to an inability to absorb and transport these substances. This in turn leads to the nutritional and neurologic problems in affected people.

Question: What causes Autoimmune hemolytic anemia ?
Answer: What causes autoimmune hemolytic anemia? In about half of cases, the cause of autoimmune hemolytic anemia cannot be determined (idiopathic or primary). This condition can also be caused by or occur with another disorder (secondary) or rarely, occur following the use of certain drugs (such as penicillin) or after a person has a blood and marrow stem cell transplant. Secondary causes of autoimmune hemolytic anemia include:  Autoimmune diseases, such as lupus Chronic lymphocytic leukemia Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and other blood cancers Epstein-Barr virus Cytomegalovirus Mycoplasma pneumonia Hepatitis HIV

Question: What causes Cushing's syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Cushing's syndrome? Cushing's syndrome is caused by long-term exposure of the body's tissues to cortisol, a hormone that is naturally produced by the adrenal gland. Exposure to too much cortisol can result from long-term use of corticosteriod medications used to treat inflammatory illnesses. Pituitary adenomas (benign tumors of the pituitary gland) or tumors of the adrenal gland may also cause cortisol imbalances.

Question: What causes Pigmented villonodular synovitis ?
Answer: What causes pigmented villonodular synovitis? The exact cause of pigmented villonodular synovitis (PVNS) is unknown.  Some doctors believe that it is similar to arthritis, arising from swelling (inflammation) of the joint tissue. Others believe it develops like a tumor, caused by cells growing and multiplying more quickly than usual. The association between a history of trauma and the development of  PVNS is unclear. One study found that 56% of individuals with PVNS had a history of previous trauma, while other studies have found a much lower incidence.  There have been studies suggesting that PVNS could be caused by specific genetic changes in the cells lining the joint. More studies are needed to research this association.

Question: What causes Florid cemento-osseous dysplasia ?
Answer: What causes florid cemento-osseous dysplasia? The cause of florid cemento-osseous dysplasia is not known. This condition is usually not familial (i.e., does not tend to run in families), however a rare familial form has been described in a few families. In these families the condition affected younger individuals, and the rate of lesion growth was rapid.

Question: What causes Chromosome 3p- syndrome ?
Answer: What causes chromosome 3p- syndrome? In most people with chromosome 3p- syndrome, the deletion occurs as a new mutation (called a de novo mutation) and is not inherited from a parent. De novo mutations are due to a random error that occurs during the formation of egg or sperm cells, or shortly after conception. In a few cases, the deletion is inherited from a parent.

Question: What causes Fibrous dysplasia ?
Answer: What causes fibrous dysplasia? The cause of fibrous dysplasia has been linked to a gene mutation that occurs after conception, in the early stages of fetal development. The mutation involves a gene that affects the cells that produce bone. People with fibrous dysplasia carry this mutation in some, but not all cells of their body. It is not well understood why the mutation occurs, but it is not inherited from a parent, nor can it be passed on to future offspring.

Question: What causes Primary gastrointestinal melanoma ?
Answer: What causes primary melanoma of the small intestine? The cause of primary melanoma of the small intestine is currently unknown. Theories include that the cancer originated from a undetectable primary tumor that spontaneously (naturally) regressed on its own; that the cancer originated from a primary tumor that is so small it can not be detected using standard clinical and laboratory investigations; lastly, because melanocytes are not normally found in the stomach, a final theory is that the melanocytes are in the stomach because early melanocyte cells lost their way during the development of the baby in the womb, and that these misplaced cells later became cancerous.

Question: What causes Trisomy 17 mosaicism ?
Answer: What causes trisomy 17 mosaicism? Trisomy 17 mosaicism can arise due to errors in cell division that occur after conception. For example, at the time of conception, the fetus may actually have trisomy 17 in all of its cells; however, during cell division, some of the cells lose the extra chromosome 17. Alternatively, the fetus may initially have had only two copies of chromosome 17, but due to errors in cell division some of the cells end up with an extra copy of chromosome 17. Either of these two scenarios result in trisomy 17 mosaicism. To read more about trisomy mosaicism, visit the following links from the Medical Genetics Department at the University of British Columbia in Canada. What is mosaicism?  How does trisomy mosaicism occur?

Question: What causes Pilomatrixoma ?
Answer: What causes a pilomatrixoma? The exact underlying cause of pilomatrixoma is not well understood. Changes (mutations) in the CTNNB1 gene are found in at least 75% of isolated (without other signs and symptoms) pilomatrixomas. These mutations are somatic, which means they are not inherited and are only present in the tumor cells. The CTNNB1 gene encodes a protein that is needed to regulate cell growth and attachment. When the gene is not working properly, it can result in abnormal cell growth. Rarely, pilomatrixomas occur in people with certain genetic syndromes such as Gardner syndrome, myotonic dystrophy, and Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome. In these cases, affected people usually have other characteristic features of the associated condition.

Question: What causes Idiopathic juxtafoveal retinal telangiectasia ?
Answer: What causes idiopathic juxtafoveal retinal telangiectasia? The exact, underlying cause of idiopathic juxtafoveal retinal telangiectasia (IJT) is not known. IJT has been reported in some siblings (including twins) and other family members of affected people. This suggests there may be a genetic component to IJT; however, no specific gene has been proven to cause the condition. Researchers have considered that changes in the ATM gene may interact with other genes or environmental factors to predispose a person to developing IJT. Some researchers have speculated that diabetes, or pre-diabetes, may be associated with some cases of IJT. However, to our knowledge, this association has not been proven. Others have suggested there may be a developmental cause, such as abnormal formation of vessels in the eye, which could cause abnormalities of the vessels in adulthood. Certain types of IJT may occur in association with other conditions, including polycythemia (abnormal increase in blood volume), hypoglycemia, ulcerative colitis, multiple myeloma and chronic lymphatic leukemia.

Question: What causes Osteogenesis imperfecta ?
Answer: What causes osteogenesis imperfecta? Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) may be caused by changes (mutations) in any of several genes. OI is most commonly due to a mutation in either the COL1A1 or COL1A2 gene, causing OI types I through IV. These genes play a role in how the body makes collagen, a material that helps to strengthen the bones. The type and severity of OI depends on the effect that the specific mutation has on normal collagen production. OI caused by mutations in these genes is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. In about 10% of people with OI, the COL1A1 and COL1A2 genes are normal and the condition is due to mutations in other genes; many of these people have an autosomal recessive form of OI. Other genes in which mutations may be responsible for less common types of OI, some of which have been reported in only one individual or family, include: IFITM5 (type V) SERPINF1 (type VI) CRTAP (type VII) LEPRE1, also called P3H1 (type VIII) PPIB (type IX) SERPINH1 (type X) FKBP10 (type XI) SP7 (type XII) BMP1 (type XIII) TMEM38B (type XIV) WNT1 (type XV) SPARC (type XVII)

Question: What causes Menetrier disease ?
Answer: What causes Mntrier disease? The exact cause of Mntrier disease is unknown.  However, it has been associated with cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection in children and Heliobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection in adults. In addition, some have suggested that overexpression of a type of growth factor called the transforming growth factor-, which is found in a specific part of the stomach, the superficial gastric epithelium, might play a role.

Question: What causes Hypophosphatemic rickets ?
Answer: What causes hypophosphatemic rickets? Hypophosphatemic rickets is almost always hereditary and may be caused by mutations in any of several genes. The specific gene involved determines the way it is inherited. Most commonly, it is caused by a mutation in the PHEX gene. Other genes that can be responsible for the condition include the CLCN5, DMP1, ENPP1, FGF23, and SLC34A3 genes. The genes associated with hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets are involved in keeping a proper balance of phosphate in the body. Many of these genes directly or indirectly regulate a protein that normally inhibits the kidneys' ability to reabsorb phosphate into the blood. Mutations affecting the function of these genes increase the production (or reduce the breakdown) of the protein, causing the protein to be overactive. The overactivity of the protein reduces phosphate reabsorption by the kidneys, leading to the features of the condition. Rarer, sporadic, acquired cases are sometimes associated with benign (non-cancerous) mesenchymal tumors that decrease resorption of phosphate.

Question: What causes X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita ?
Answer: What causes X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita? X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita is caused by mutations in the NR0B1 gene. The NR0B1 gene provides instructions to make a protein called DAX1. This protein plays an important role in the development and function of several hormone-producing tissues including the adrenal glands, two hormone-secreting glands in the brain (the hypothalamus and pituitary), and the gonads (ovaries in females and testes in males). The hormones produced by these glands control many important body functions. Some NR0B1 mutations result in the production of an inactive version of the DAX1 protein, while other mutations delete the entire gene. The resulting shortage of DAX1 disrupts the normal development and function of hormone-producing tissues in the body. The signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism occur when endocrine glands do not produce the right amounts of certain hormones.

Question: What causes Autoimmune atrophic gastritis ?
Answer: What causes autoimmune atrophic gastritis? Autoimmune atrophic gastritis is considered an autoimmune disorder. In people who are affected by this condition, the immune system mistakenly attacks the healthy cells of the stomach lining. Overtime, this can wear away the stomach's protective barrier and interfere with the absorption of several key vitamins (i.e. vitamin B12, iron, folate). This leads to the signs and symptoms of autoimmune atrophic gastritis.

Question: What causes Urachal cyst ?
Answer: What causes a urachal cyst? A urachal cyst occurs when a pocket of air or fluid develops in the urachus. Before birth, the urachus is a primitive structure that connects the umbilical cord to the bladder in the developing baby. The urachus normally disappears before birth, but part of the urachus may remain in some people after they are born. This can lead to urachal abnormalities such as urachal cysts.

Question: What causes Primary carnitine deficiency ?
Answer: What causes primary carnitine deficiency? Mutations in the SLC22A5 gene cause primary carnitine deficiency. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called OCTN2 that transports carnitine into cells. Cells need carnitine to bring certain types of fats (fatty acids) into mitochondria, which are the energy-producing centers within cells. Fatty acids are a major source of energy for the heart and muscles. During periods of fasting, fatty acids are also an important energy source for the liver and other tissues. Mutations in the SLC22A5 gene result in an absent or dysfunctional OCTN2 protein. As a result, there is a shortage (deficiency) of carnitine within cells. This deficiency, as well as potential build-up of fatty acids within the cells, causes the signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: What causes Floating-Harbor syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Floating-Harbor syndrome? The exact cause of Floating-Harbor syndrome is not known. Autosomal dominant inheritance has been suggested.

Question: What causes Factor V deficiency ?
Answer: What causes factor V deficiency? Factor V deficiency is caused by mutations in the F5 gene that prevent the production of a functional factor V protein or decrease the amount of the protein in the bloodstream. Mutations are present in both copies of the F5 gene in each cell, which prevents blood from clotting normally.

Question: What causes Gamma heavy chain disease ?
Answer: What causes gamma heavy chain disease?  The causes or risk factors for gamma heavy chain disease are not known.

Question: What causes Tay-Sachs disease ?
Answer: What causes Tay-Sachs disease? Tay-Sachs disease is caused by mutations in the HEXA gene. The HEXA gene provides instructions for making part of an enzyme called beta-hexosaminidase A, which plays a critical role in the brain and spinal cord. This enzyme is located in lysosomes, which are structures in cells that break down toxic substances and act as recycling centers. Within lysosomes, beta-hexosaminidase A helps break down a fatty substance called GM2 ganglioside. Mutations in the HEXA gene disrupt the activity of beta-hexosaminidase A, which prevents the enzyme from breaking down GM2 ganglioside. As a result, this substance accumulates to toxic levels, particularly in neurons in the brain and spinal cord. Progressive damage caused by the buildup of GM2 ganglioside leads to the destruction of these neurons, which causes the signs and symptoms seen in Tay-Sachs disease,

Question: What causes Relapsing polychondritis ?
Answer: What causes relapsing polychondritis? The exact underlying cause of relapsing polychondritis (RP) is unknown. However, scientists suspect that it is an autoimmune condition. It it thought that RP occurs when the body's immune system mistakenly attacks its own cartilage and other tissues. In general, autoimmune conditions are complex traits that are associated with the effects of multiple genes in combination with lifestyle and environmental factors. There is also evidence to suggest that some people may be born with a genetic susceptibility to RP. Studies have found that people with RP are roughly twice as likely as those without this condition to carry a certain genetic allele called HLA-DR4. "HLA" stands for human leukocyte antigen, which is an important part of our immune system and plays a role in resistance and predisposition (risk) to disease. However, HLA genes are not solely responsible for specific diseases but instead may simply contribute along with other genetic or environmental factors to disease risk. Thus, many people with HLA-DR4 will never develop RP.

Question: What causes Autoimmune hepatitis ?
Answer: What causes autoimmune hepatitis? Although the exact cause of autoimmune hepatitis is unknown, evidence suggests that liver injury in a patient with autoimmune hepatitis is the result of a cell-mediated immunologic attack. This autoimmune attack may be triggered by genetic factors, viral infections, or chemical agents. Autoimmune hepatitis sometimes occurs in relatives of people with autoimmune diseases, further suggesting a genetic cause.

Question: What causes Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, kyphoscoliosis type ?
Answer: What causes Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, kyphoscoliosis type? Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS), kyphoscoliosis type is caused by changes (mutations) in the PLOD1 gene. This gene encodes an enzyme that helps process molecules which allow collagen to form stable interactions with one another. Collagen is a protein that provides structure and strength to connective tissues throughout the body. Mutations in the PLOD1 gene lead to reduced levels of functional enzyme which disrupt networks of collagen throughout the body. This weakens the connective tissues and leads to the characteristic signs and symptoms associated with EDS, kyphoscoliosis type.

Question: What causes Hepatocellular carcinoma, childhood ?
Answer: What causes hepatocellular carcinoma, childhood? A review of the literature suggests that knowledge regarding the cause of hepatocellular carcinoma in children is lacking due to the rarity of this disease.  Children living in regions of the world where heptatitis B virus is common have been reported to have a much greater risk of developing this disease.  Chronic infection by hepatitis C virus has also been linked to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma. Hepatocellular carcinoma has also been reported to develop in the presence of liver disease, cirrhosis, and inborn errors of metabolism. In addition, various other reported risk factors for developing hepatocellular carcinoma include: male sex, co-infection with other viral liver disease, co-infection with HIV, alcohol abuse, family history of this carcinoma, increased hepatic iron, increased serum alanine aminotransferase levels, exposure to aflatoxin B1 by food contamination, genetic variants of glutathione S-transferase, and various metabolic liver disorders. Chronic Epstein Barr virus infections have also been suggested to play a role in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma in Asian patients. This association remains to be confirmed in other populations.

Question: What causes Achalasia ?
Answer: What causes achalasia? The lower esophageal sphincter, the ring-shaped muscle at the bottom of the esophagus, normally relaxes during swallowing. In people with achalasia, this muscle ring does not relax as well. The reason for this problem is damage to the nerves of the esophagus. In some people, this problem appears to be inherited. There is additionally a suspected autoimmune component involved in the development of achalasia as individuals with achalasia are more likely to have a concomitant autoimmune disease than the general population.

Question: What causes Hereditary fructose intolerance ?
Answer: What causes hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI)? HFI is caused by alterations (mutations) in the ALDOB gene. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called aldolase B. This enzyme is primarily found in the liver and is involved in the breakdown of fructose into energy. Mutations in the ALDOB gene reduce the function of the enzyme, impairing its ability to metabolize fructose. This causes a toxic buildup of fructose-1-phosphate in liver cells, which results in the death of liver cells over time.

Question: What causes Uncombable hair syndrome ?
Answer: What causes uncombable hair syndrome? The stiffness of the hair in uncombable hair syndrome (UHS) is likely due to the triangular shape of the hair shaft that is seen in cross section in affected people. It has been suggested that the condition may result from premature keratinization (development of keratin) of the inner root sheath, which forms the channel for the growing hair. The inner root sheath conforms in configuration to the abnormal outline of the hair shaft. It thus forms an irregular, rigid tube that then alters the shape of the emerging hair. While it is assumed that the condition is autosomal dominant and thus due to changes (mutations) in a gene, no responsible gene has been identified.

Question: What causes Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy ?
Answer: What causes intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy? Largely, the cause of intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP) is unknown. ICP is present in approximately 1% of pregnancies in the United States. It is thought to be caused by a mixture of genetic, hormonal, and environmental factors. Risk factors include: A personal or family history of cholestasis of pregnancy A history of liver disease A multiple gestation pregnancy (twins, triplets, etc) Approximately 15% of women with ICP have a mutation in either the ABCB11 orABCB4 gene. Mutations within these genes increase the likelihood that a woman will develop ICP. Mutations within the ABCB11 and ABCB4 gene(s) are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that in order to be affected, a person only needs a change in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations within the gene. A person with a mutation in either theABCB11 or ABCB4 gene has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: What causes Kyrle disease ?
Answer: What causes Kyrle disease? The cause of Kyrle disease is currently unknown. Some cases appear to be idiopathic (no known triggers), or inherited. What has been found is that Kyrle disease appears to occur more frequently in patients with certain systemic disorders, which include diabetes mellitus; renal disease (chronic renal failure, albuminuria, elevated serum creatinine, abnormal creatinine clearance, polyuria); hepatic abnormalities (alcoholic cirrhosis); and congestive heart failure. It has been thought that metabolic disorders associated with Kyrle disease are somehow responsible for development of abnormal keratinization and connective tissue changes, but the exact mechanism by which this happens is unclear.

Question: What causes Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis ?
Answer: What causes adolescent idiopathic scoliosis? The term "idiopathic" means that the cause of this condition is unknown. Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis probably results from a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Studies suggest that the abnormal spinal curvature may be related to hormonal problems, abnormal bone or muscle growth, nervous system abnormalities, or other factors that have not yet been identified. Researchers suspect that many genes are involved in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. Some of these genes likely contribute to causing the disorder, while others play a role in determining the severity of spinal curvature and whether the curve is stable or progressive. Although many genes have been studied, few clear and consistent genetic associations with this condition have been identified.

Question: What causes 22q11.2 deletion syndrome ?
Answer: What causes 22q11.2 deletion syndrome? 22q11.2 deletion syndrome is caused by a missing piece (deletion) of part of chromosome 22 in each cell. The deletion occurs near the middle of the chromosome at a location designated q11.2. Most people with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome are missing a piece of the chromosome that contains about 30 to 40 genes, many of which have not been well characterized. Some affected people have smaller deletions. Researchers are working to learn more about all of the genes that contribute to the features of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome. The deletion of a particular gene, TBX1, is probably responsible for many of the syndrome's characteristic signs (such as heart defects, a cleft palate, distinctive facial features, hearing loss, and low calcium levels). Loss of this gene may also contribute to behavioral problems. The loss of another gene, COMT, may also cause increased risk of behavioral problems and mental illness in affected people. The other genes that are deleted likely contribute to the various features of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome.

Question: What causes Laron syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Laron syndrome? Laron syndrome is caused by changes (mutations) in the GHR gene. This gene encodes growth hormone receptor, which is a protein found on the outer membrane of cells throughout the body. Growth hormone receptor is designed to recognize and bind growth hormone, which triggers cellular growth and division. When growth hormone is bound to the growth hormone receptors on liver cells, specifically, insulin-like growth factor I (another important growth-promoting hormone) is produced. Mutations in GHR impair the function of growth hormone receptors which interferes with their ability to bind growth hormone. This disrupts normal growth and development of cells and prevents the production of insulin-like growth factor I which causes the many signs and symptoms of Laron syndrome.

Question: What causes Lipodermatosclerosis ?
Answer: What causes lipodermatosclerosis? The exact cause of lipodermatosclerosis is unknown; however, it may be related to certain vein abnormalities and/or obesity. Lipodermatosclerosis often occurs in people with venous insufficiency. Approximately two thirds of affected people are obese.

Question: What causes Coffin-Siris syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Coffin-Siris syndrome? Coffin-Siris syndrome is caused by a change (mutation) in either the ARID1A, ARID1B, SMARCA4, SMARCB1, or SMARCE1 gene. Exactly how these gene mutations result in the symptoms of Coffin-Siris syndrome is not known, however it is thought that the mutations affect how genetic material is packaged in the cell. Coffin-Siris syndrome is an autosomal dominant condition; as only one gene mutation is needed to cause the syndrome. It usually occurs for the first time in a family due to a new mutation.  In some cases, no genetic mutation can be identified and the cause of Coffin-Siris syndrome in the family remains unknown.

Question: What causes Stevens-Johnson syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Stevens-Johnson syndrome? The exact cause of Stevens-Johnson syndrome is unknown in 25 to 30% of cases. In those cases in which the cause can be determined, it is believed to be related to an adverse allergic drug reaction. Almost any drug--but most particularly sulfa drugs--can cause Stevens-Johnson syndrome. The allergic reaction to the drug may not occur until 7-14 days after first using it. Stevens-Johnson syndrome can also be preceded by a viral infection, such as herpes or the mumps. In rare cases, Stevens-Johnson syndrome may be caused by an illness or bone marrow transplantation.

Question: What causes Behr syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Behr syndrome? The exact cause of Behr syndrome is not known; however, a genetic cause is suspected based on the families identified, thus far.

Question: What causes Von Willebrand disease ?
Answer: What causes von Willebrand disease? Von Willebrand disease is typically an inherited disease caused by mutations in the VWF gene. The VWF gene provides instructions for making a blood clotting protein called von Willebrand factor, which is important for forming blood clots and preventing further blood loss after an injury. If von Willebrand factor does not function normally or too little of the protein is available, blood clots cannot form properly. VWF gene mutations that reduce the amount of von Willebrand factor or cause the protein to function abnormally (or not at all) are responsible for the signs and symptoms associated with the condition. These mutations may be inherited in an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive manner, or may occur for the first time in the affected individual (known as a de novo mutation). Another form of the disorder, often considered a separate condition, is called acquired von Willebrand syndrome (AVWS). AVWS is not caused by gene mutations. This condition is typically seen in conjunction with other disorders and usually begins in adulthood. A list of disorders associated with AVWS is available from  UpToDate.

Question: What causes Madelung disease ?
Answer: What causes Madelung disease? The exact underlying cause of Madelung disease remains unknown, but several theories have been proposed. The body's inability to properly metabolize fat in affected people suggests that Madelung disease may be an endocrine disorder. An enzyme defect or a change in the surface of cells could prevent the breakdown of fat leading to the characteristic signs and symptoms of the condition. Alcohol consumption may also play a role in the development of Madelung disease since roughly 90% of affected people have a history of alcohol abuse. Madelung disease has also been linked to genetic factors. Rarely, more than one family member can be affected by this condition which suggests that it may be inherited in at least some cases. In the majority of these families, the mode of inheritance has not been determined. However, changes (mutations) in mitochondrial DNA have been identified in some families who have Madelung disease in combination with other conditions that affect many different systems of the body.

Question: What causes Dermatomyositis ?
Answer: What causes dermatomyositis? The cause of this disorder is unknown. It is theorized that an autoimmune reaction (reactions caused by an immune response against the body's own tissues) or a viral infection of the skeletal muscle may cause the disease. In addition, some doctors think certain people may have a genetic susceptibility to the disease.

Question: What causes Craniometaphyseal dysplasia, autosomal recessive type ?
Answer: What causes autosomal recessive craniometaphyseal dysplasia? Autosomal recessive craniometaphyseal dysplasia is caused by mutations in the GJA1 gene. The GJA1 gene provides instructions for making a protein called connexin43, which is one of 21 connexin proteins in humans. Connexins lay a role in cell-to-cell communication by forming channels, or gap junctions, between cells. Gap junctions allow for the transport of nutrients, charged particles (ions), and other small molecules that carry necessary communication signals between cells. Connexin43 is found in many human tissues, including eyes, skin, bine, ears, heart, and brain. Mutations in the GJA1 gene that cause autosomal recessive craniometaphyseal dysplasia appear to disrupt bone remodeling. The exact mechanism involved is yet to be determined.

Question: What causes Phacomatosis pigmentovascularis ?
Answer: What causes phacomatosis pigmentovascularis? Phacomatosis pigmentovascularis (PPV) is thought to occur as a result of a change in the arrangement of a small piece of genetic material in a developing embryo. Because of this change some of the baby's body cells carry two copies of recessive gene mutations while the majority of his or her body cells carry only one. Having two copies of the recessive gene mutations result in a diseased cell (and symptoms of PPV). This phenomenon is called twin spotting. PPV occurs by chance, it is not inherited, and affects only a subset of the body's cells. As a result risk to future offspring is very small.

Question: What causes Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy ?
Answer: What causes chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP)? The exact underlying cause of CIDP is unknown, but there is evidence to support that it is related to the immune system and may have multiple triggers. It is thought to be caused by an abnormal immune response in which the immune system mistakenly attacks and damages the myelin sheath (the covering that protects nerve fibers) of the peripheral nerves. However, no specific provoking antigens or other predisposing factors for CIDP have been identified. In several case reports, treatment with tumor necrosis factor-alpha inhibitors has been associated with the subsequent development of chronic demyelinating neuropathies.

Question: What causes Pyruvate kinase deficiency ?
Answer: What causes pyruvate kinase deficiency? In most cases, pyruvate kinase deficiency is caused by mutations in the PKLR gene. More than 100 different mutation in the PKLR gene have been detected. Medical conditions, such as acute leukemia, preleukemia, and refractory sideroblastic anemia, as well as complications from chemotherapy, can cause an acquired pyruvate kinase deficiency. This type is more common and milder than the hereditary type.

Question: What causes Pineal cyst ?
Answer: What causes pineal cysts? The exact cause of pineal cysts is unknown. However, some studies suggest that bleeding in the pineal region or hormonal influences may play a role in the development and progression of pineal cysts.

Question: What causes Huntington disease ?
Answer: What causes Huntington disease? Huntington disease (HD) is caused by a change (mutation) in the HTT gene. This gene gives instructions for making a protein called huntingtin. The exact function of this protein is unclear, but it appears to be important to nerve cells (neurons) in the brain. The HTT gene mutation that causes HD involves a DNA segment known as a CAG trinucleotide repeat. This segment is made up of three DNA building blocks that repeat multiple times in a row. The CAG segment in a normal HTT gene repeats about 10 to 35 times. In people with HD, it may repeat from 36 to over 120 times. People with 36 to 39 CAG repeats (an intermediate size) may or may not develop HD, while people with 40 or more repeats almost always develop HD. An increased number of CAG repeats leads to an abnormally long version of the huntingtin protein. The long protein is then cut into smaller, toxic pieces that end up sticking together and accumulating in neurons. This disrupts the function of the neurons, ultimately causing the features of HD.

Question: What causes Blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome ?
Answer: What causes blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome? Currently the cause of blue rubber bleb syndrome is not known.

Question: What causes Microscopic polyangiitis ?
Answer: What causes microscopic polyangiitis (MPA)? The cause of MPA is unknown. It is not contagious, does not usually run in families, and is not a form of cancer. The immune system is thought to play a critical role in the development of MPA.  It is thought that the immune system becomes overactive and causes blood vessel and tissue inflammation, which leads to organ damage. It is not known what causes the immune system to become overactive.

Question: What causes Barrett esophagus ?
Answer: What causes Barrett esophagus? The exact underlying cause of Barrett esophagus is unknown. However, certain factors are known to increase the risk of developing the condition. These include: Long-standing gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) Obesity (specifically high levels of belly fat) Smoking Factors that may decrease the risk include having a Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection; frequent use of aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs; and a diet high in fruits, vegetables, and certain vitamins.

Question: What causes Juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ?
Answer: What causes juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis? Juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is often genetic and may be caused by mutations in the ALS2 or SETX genes. In some cases the underlying gene abnormality cannot be determined. Juvenile ALS may be inherited in an autosomal dominant (as in ALS type 4) or autosomal recessive (as in ALS type 2) fashion.

Question: What causes Hemifacial microsomia ?
Answer: What causes hemifacial microsomia? For most people with hemifacial microsomia, the cause is unknown. It is believed that something occurs in the early stages of development, such as a disturbance of the blood supply to the first and second branchial arches in the first 6 to 8 weeks of pregnancy. Studies have suggested multiple possible risk factors for hemifacial microsomia. Environmental risk factors include the use of medications during pregnancy such as Accutane, pseudoephedrine, aspirin, or ibuprofen. Other environmental factors include second trimester bleeding, maternal diabetes, being pregnant with multiples, or the use of assisted reproductive technology. A genetic cause is found in some families, such as a chromosome disorder or a genetic syndrome. Some possible explanations when the cause of hemifacial microsomia is unknown include a very small chromosome deletion or duplication that is not detected, a mutation in an unknown gene, or changes in multiple genes associated with development of the face. It is also possible that a combination of genetic changes and environmental risk factors could cause hemifacial microsomia.

Question: What causes Swyer-James syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Swyer-James syndrome? The cause of Swyer-James syndrome is not completely understood. Most experts agree that the initial abnormality occurs in the distal bronchi (air tubes that bring air to and from the lungs) after an infection during early childhood. The smaller size of the affected lung may be due to the infection inhibiting the normal growth of the lung. A number of reports have described Swyer-James syndrome following childhood histories including radiation therapy; measles; pertussis (whooping cough); tuberculosis; breathing in a foreign body; mycoplasma; and viral infections, especially adenovirus. Research has suggested that a hyper-immune reaction in the lung (producing an unusual abundance of antibodies) may play a role in sustaining airway damage after the initial infection. Some have argued a pre-existing lung abnormality may predispose individuals to the condition. Although bronchial damage of some kind during childhood is generally considered to play an important role, many affected individuals have had no known history of an airway infection. It is possible that some unknown factors present at birth may contribute to the development of Swyer-James syndrome.

Question: What causes Lichen sclerosus ?
Answer: What causes lichen sclerosus? The underlying cause of lichen sclerosus is not fully understood. The condition may be due to genetic, hormonal, irritant and/or infectious factors (or a combination of these factors). It is believed to relate to an autoimmune process, in which antibodies mistakenly attack a component of the skin. Other autoimmune conditions are reported to occur more frequently than expected in people with lichen sclerosis. In some cases, lichen sclerosus appears on skin that has been damaged or scarred from previous injury or trauma.

Question: What causes Cold agglutinin disease ?
Answer: What causes cold agglutinin disease? Cold agglutinin disease is typically classified as primary (unknown cause) or secondary (caused by an underlying condition). Secondary cold agglutinin disease may be associated with: Bacterial Infections such as mycoplasma, Legionnaires' disease, syphilis, listeriosis, or E. Coli Viral infections such Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus, mumps, varicella, rubella, adenovirus, HIV, influenza, or hepatitis C Parasitic infections such as malaria or trypanosomiasis Other autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus Certain types of cancers such as lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, Waldenstrm macroglobulinemia, multiple myeloma, and Kaposi sarcoma

Question: What causes Hallermann-Streiff syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Hallermann-Streiff syndrome? The genetic cause of Hallerman-Streiff syndrome has not been identified. It reportedly typically occurs randomly for unknown reasons (sporadically), most likely due to a new spontaneous (de novo) mutation in the affected individual.

Question: What causes Rotor syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Rotor syndrome? Rotor syndrome is an inherited disorder caused by having mutations in both the SLCO1B1 and SLCO1B3 genes. These genes provide instructions for making proteins that are found in liver cells, where they transport bilirubin and other substances from the blood into the liver so that they can be cleared from the body. In the liver, bilirubin is dissolved in a digestive fluid called bile, and then excreted from the body. The mutations in the SLCO1B1 and SLCO1B3 genes that cause Rotor syndrome either prevent the production of the transporting proteins, or prevent them from functioning properly. When this occurs, bilirubin is not effectively removed from the body and builds up, leading to jaundice.

Question: What causes Nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia due to hexokinase deficiency ?
Answer: What causes nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia due to hexokinase deficiency? Nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia due to hexokinase deficiency has been shown to be caused by mutations in the HK1 gene, which cause at least a partial deficiency of the enzyme hexokinase. This enzyme plays an important role in the chemical processes involved in the breakdown of sugar molecules (glycolysis). Red blood cells depend on this process for energy; if an enzyme is defective in any one of the stages, the red blood cell cannot function properly and hemolysis takes place. When red blood cells cannot be replaced faster than they destroy themselves, anemia results.

Question: What causes Sialadenitis ?
Answer: What causes sialadenitis? Sialadenitis usually occurs after hyposecretion (reduced flow from the salivary glands) or duct obstruction, but may develop without an obvious cause. Saliva flow can be reduced in people who are sick or recovering from surgery, or people who are dehydrated, malnourished, or immunosuppressed. A stone or a kink in the salivary duct can also diminish saliva flow, as can certain medications (such as antihistamines, diuretics, psychiatric medications, beta-blockers, or barbiturates). It often occurs in chronically ill people with xerostomia (dry mouth), people with Sjogren syndrome, and in those who have had radiation therapy to the oral cavity. The most common causative organism in the infection is Staphylococcus aureus; others include streptococci, coliforms, and various anaerobic bacteria. Although less common than bacteria, several viruses have also been implicated in sialadenitis. These include the mumps virus, HIV, coxsackievirus, parainfluenza types I and II, influenza A, and herpes.

Question: What causes Cherubism ?
Answer: How does one get cherubism? What causes cherubism? Genetic changes (mutations) in the SH3BP2 gene cause cherubism. About 80 percent of people with cherubism have a mutation in the SH3BP2 gene. In most of the remaining cases, the genetic cause of the condition is unknown.

Question: What causes Down syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Down syndrome? There are 3 possible genetic causes of Down syndrome: Trisomy 21. Most often, Down syndrome is caused by an extra chromosome 21 in all cells of the affected person.  In these cases, the chromosome 21 pair fails to separate during the formation of an egg (or sperm); this is called "nondisjunction." When the egg with 2 copies of chromosome 21 unites with a normal sperm with one copy of chromosome 21 to form an embryo, the resulting embryo has 3 copies of chromosome 21 instead of the normal two. The extra chromosome is then copied in every cell of the baby's body, causing the features of Down syndrome. The cause of nondisjunction is unknown, but research has shown that it happens more often as women age. Nondisjunction is not known to be caused by anything in the environment or anything that parents do (or don't do) before or during pregnancy. Mosaic trisomy 21. In about 1-2% of cases, only some of the cells in a person's body have an extra chromosome 21; this is called "mosaic trisomy 21".  In this situation, the fertilized egg may have the right number of chromosomes, but due to a cell division error early in the development of the embryo, some cells "acquire" an extra chromosome 21. A person with mosaic trisomy 21 typically has 46 chromosomes in some cells, and 47 chromosomes (with the extra chromosome 21) in others. The features and severity in people with mosaic trisomy 21 may vary widely.  Translocation trisomy 21. About 3-4% of people with Down syndrome have cells that contain 46 chromosomes; however, there is extra chromosome 21 material attached (translocated ) onto another chromosome.  For parents of a child with Down syndrome due to a translocation, there may be an increased chance of Down syndrome in future pregnancies. This is because one of the two parents may be a carrier of a balanced translocation. However, not all parents of people with translocation trisomy 21 have a translocation. Regardless of the type of Down syndrome a person has, all people with Down syndrome have an extra, critical portion of chromosome 21 present in all or some of their cells. This extra genetic material disrupts the normal course of development, causing the characteristic features of Down syndrome.

Question: What causes Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease ?
Answer: What causes Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease? Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease (GSS) is usually caused by certain changes (mutations) in the PRNP gene. PRNP encodes a protein called prion protein. Although the exact function of this protein is unknown, it appears to play an important role in the human brain and other tissues throughout the body. People affected by GSS generally have mutations in the PRNP gene that result in the production of an abnormally shaped prion protein. The abnormal protein builds up in the brain, forming clumps that damage or destroy neurons. This loss of brain cells leads to the signs and symptoms of GSS.

Question: What causes Hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis ?
Answer: What causes hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis - Dutch type? The clinical symptoms of hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis - Dutch type are caused by the build-up of a protein called amyloid within the arterial walls of the brain. This protein build-up causes bleeding into the brain. The symptoms occur because bleeding in the brain harms brain tissue. Hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis-Dutch type is an autosomal dominant disorder with complete penetrance (all individuals who inherit the mutated gene will develop the condition). The likely genetic defect is in the amyloid protein precursor protein (APP) gene on chromosome 21.

Question: What causes Fragile X syndrome ?
Answer: What causes fragile X syndrome? Mutations (changes) in the FMR1 gene cause fragile X syndrome (FXS). This gene carries instructions to make a protein called the fragile X mental retardation 1 protein. The FMR1 gene contains a section of DNA called a CGG triplet repeat, which normally repeats from 5 to around 40 times. In most cases of FXS, this section of DNA is repeated more than 200 times, which "turns off" the FMR1 gene and disrupts the function of the nervous system. In a small portion of cases, other types of changes in the FMR1 gene cause FXS. These changes may involve a deletion of all or part of the gene, or a change in the building blocks (amino acids) used to make the gene's protein. People with 55 to 200 repeats of the CGG segment are said to have an FMR1 premutation. Most people with a premutation are intellectually normal. In some cases, people with a premutation have lower levels of the gene's protein and may have some mild symptoms of FXS. About 20% of women with a premutation have premature ovarian failure, and some people with a premutation have an increased risk of developing fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome (FXTAS).

Question: What causes Opitz G/BBB syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Opitz G/BBB syndrome? The X-linked form of Opitz G/BBB syndrome is caused by mutations in the MID1 gene. The MID1 gene provides instructions for making a specific protein called midline-1. This protein helps regulate the function of microtubules, which are rigid, hollow fibers that make up the cell's structural framework (the cytoskeleton). Microtubules help cells maintain their shape, assist in the process of cell division, and are essential for the movement of cells (cell migration). The MID1 gene is a member of a group of genes called the TRIM (tripartite motif) family. The proteins produced from this large family of genes are involved in many cellular activities. Primarily, TRIM proteins play a role in the cell machinery that breaks down (degrades) unwanted proteins. As part of its protein degrading function, midline-1 is responsible for recycling certain proteins, including phosphatase 2A (PP2A), integrin alpha-4 (ITGA4), and serine/threonine-protein kinase 36 (STK36). The recycling of these three proteins so they can be reused instead of broken down is essential because they are needed for normal cellular functioning. Mutations in the MID1 gene lead to a decrease in midline-1 function, which prevents this protein recycling. As a result, certain proteins are not recycled, and they accumulate in cells. This buildup impairs microtubule function, resulting in problems with cell division and migration. Researchers speculate that the altered midline-1 protein affects how the cells divide and migrate along the midline of the body during development, resulting in the features of Opitz G/BBB syndrome. Some people who have a family history of X-linked Opitz G/BBB syndrome have no detectable MID1 mutation. The reason for this is not yet known, although some researchers have suggested the involvement of other unknown genes. The autosomal dominant form of Opitz G/BBB syndrome is caused by a deletion of a small piece of chromosome 22, specifically 22q11.2, which is why researchers consider this condition to be part of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome. It is not yet known which deleted gene(s) within this region of chromosome 22 specifically cause the signs and symptoms of Opitz G/BBB syndrome. In others with autosomal dominant Opitz G/BBB syndrome, the cause is related to a mutation in the SPECCIL gene. Click on the gene name to learn more about its role in the development of this condition.

Question: What causes Rickets ?
Answer: What causes rickets? Rickets is caused by a lack of vitamin D. A child might not get enough vitamin D if he or she: Has dark skin Spends too little time outside Has on sunscreen all the time when out of doors Doesn't eat foods containing vitamin D because of lactose intolerance or a strict vegetarian diet Is breastfed without receiving vitamin D supplements Can't make or use vitamin D because of a medical disorder such as celiac disease Has an inherited disorder that affects vitamin D levels

Question: What causes Benign rolandic epilepsy (BRE) ?
Answer: What causes benign rolandic epilepsy? Benign rolandic epilepsy is a genetic syndrome with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance.  Although the gene associated with the condition has not been identified, Neubauer et al. (1998) found evidence of linkage to chromosome 15q. Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy has been mapped to the same region.

Question: What causes Adult-onset Still's disease ?
Answer: What causes adult-onset Still's disease? The cause of adult-onset Stills disease is unknown. Some hypothesize that the condition results from or is triggered by a virus or other infectious agent. Others believe that it is a hypersensitive or autoimmune disorder. To date, no conclusive evidence has been found to prove or disprove either theory.

Question: What causes Warthin tumor ?
Answer: What causes Warthin tumor? The exact underlying cause of Warthin tumor is currently unknown. However, smoking is thought to increase the risk of developing the tumor. Some studies suggest that radiation exposure and autoimmune disorders may also be associated with Warthin tumor.

Question: What causes Frontal fibrosing alopecia ?
Answer: What causes frontal fibrosing alopecia? The exact underlying cause of frontal fibrosing alopecia (FFA) is unknown. FFA is thought to be an autoimmune condition in which an affected person's immune system mistakenly attacks the hair follicles (structures in the skin that make hair). Scientists also suspect that there may be a hormonal component since the condition most commonly affects post-menopausal women over age 50.

Question: What causes Froelich syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Froelich syndrome? Froehlich syndrome is usually caused by lesions in the hypothalamic gland or pituitary gland. The lesions may be caused by a tumor (e.g., craniopharyngioma), swelling from an infection (e.g., tuberculosis), encephalitis, or other brain injuries.

Question: What causes Tracheobronchopathia osteoplastica ?
Answer: What causes tracheobronchopathia osteoplastica? The underlying cause of tracheobronchopathia osteoplastica (TO) remains unknown. Several theories have been proposed, including chronic airway inflammation, exostosis (formation of new bone), and metaplasia (abnormal cell changes) in the affected tissue. Numerous cases have been reported in association with different conditions including allergic rhinitis. However, no theories have been validated. There is no known genetic susceptibility to the development of TO.

Question: What causes Myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative disease ?
Answer: What causes myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative disease? In most cases, the cause of myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative disease is unknown, and there is limited information regarding potential causes. No specific genetic defects have been identified for any of the diseases. The specific cause of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) is unknown, but exposure to occupational and environmental carcinogens (agents that can cause cancer), ionizing radiation, and cytotoxic agents (agents that are toxic to cells) have been associated in some cases. The cause of juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML) is not known; however, children with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) are at increased risk for developing JMML, and up to 14% of cases of JMML occur in children with NF1. Atypical chronic myelogenous leukemia (aCML) has been associated with cytogenetic (chromosomal) abnormalities in as many as 80% of individuals with the disease; however, no cytogenetic abnormality is specific. Myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasm, unclassifiable (MDS/ MPN-UC) (also known as mixed myeloproliferative/ myelodysplastic syndrome) also has no known cause.

Question: What causes Ewing sarcoma ?
Answer: What causes Ewing sarcoma? The exact cause of Ewing sarcoma remains largely unknown. Chromosomal studies have found that Ewing sarcoma cells are often characterized by an abnormal change in their genetic makeup known as a reciprocal translocation. The most common mutation, occurring in approximately 85% of Ewing sarcoma tumors, involves two genes, the EWSR1 gene on chromosome 22 and the FLI1 gene on chromosome 11. This rearrangement of genetic material between chromosomes 22 and 11 fuses part of the EWSR1 gene with part of the FLI1 gene, creating the EWSR1/FLI1 fusion gene. This mutation is acquired during a person's lifetime and is present only in tumor cells. This type of genetic change, called a somatic mutation, is not inherited. In extremely rare cases, Ewing sarcoma may develop as a second malignancy, which means that the condition develops as a late-onset complication of earlier treatment for another form of cancer.

Question: What causes Galactosialidosis ?
Answer: What causes galactosialidosis? Galactosialidosis is caused by mutations in the CTSA gene. The CTSA gene provides instructions for making a protein called cathepsin A, which is active in cellular compartments called lysosomes. These compartments contain enzymes that digest and recycle materials when they are no longer needed. Cathepsin A works together with two enzymes, neuraminidase 1 and beta-galactosidase, to form a protein complex. This complex breaks down sugar molecules (oligosaccharides) attached to certain proteins (glycoproteins) or fats (glycolipids). Cathepsin A is also found on the cell surface, where it forms a complex with neuraminidase 1 and a protein called elastin binding protein. Elastin binding protein plays a role in the formation of elastic fibers, a component of the connective tissues that form the body's supportive framework. CTSA mutations interfere with the normal function of cathepsin A. Most mutations disrupt the protein structure of cathepsin A, impairing its ability to form complexes with neuraminidase 1, beta-galactosidase, and elastin binding protein. As a result, these other enzymes are not functional, or they break down prematurely. Galactosialidosis belongs to a large family of lysosomal storage disorders, each caused by the deficiency of a specific lysosomal enzyme or protein. In galactosialidosis, impaired functioning of cathepsin A and other enzymes causes certain substances to accumulate in the lysosomes.

Question: What causes Protein C deficiency ?
Answer: What causes protein C deficiency? Protein C deficiency can be inherited or acquired later in life. Inherited protein C deficiency is caused by mutations in the gene that provides instructions for making protein C, called the PROC gene. These mutations disrupt the protein's ability to control blood clotting. If protein C cannot control blood clotting, abnormal blood clots may form. Acquired protein C deficiency may be caused by large blood clots, liver disease, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), infection (sepsis), and vitamin K deficiency. Treatment with warfarin or certain types of chemotherapy can also cause acquired protein C deficiency.

Question: What causes Multiple myeloma ?
Answer: What causes multiple myeloma? Although the exact underlying cause of multiple myeloma is poorly understood, the specific symptoms of the condition result from abnormal and excessive growth of plasma cells in the bone marrow. Plasma cells help the body fight infection by producing proteins called antibodies. In people with multiple myeloma, excess plasma cells form tumors in the bone, causing bones to become weak and easily broken. The abnormal growth of plasma cells also makes it more difficult for the bone marrow to make healthy blood cells and platelets. The plasma cells produced in multiple myeloma produce abnormal antibodies that the immune system is unable to use. These abnormal antibodies build up in the body and cause a variety of problems. Factors that are associated with an increased risk of developing multiple myeloma include increasing age, male sex, African American race, radiation exposure, a family history of the condition, obesity, and/or a personal history of monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS).

Question: What causes Chondrocalcinosis 2 ?
Answer: What causes chondrocalcinosis 2? Chondrocalcinosis 2 is caused by changes (mutations) in the ANKH gene. This gene encodes a protein that helps transport pyrophosphate (a substance that regulates bone formation). Mutations in ANKH can cause high levels of pyrophosphate and calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystals to accumulate in the cartilage of joints. The buildup of these crystals weakens cartilage and causes it to break down more easily. This leads to the many signs and symptoms associated with chondrocalcinosis 2.

Question: What causes Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis ?
Answer: What causes hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis? There are inherited and non-inherited (acquired) causes of hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH). There are five subtypes of inherited HLH which are designated familial HLH, types 1-5. Each subtype is caused by a change (mutation) in a different gene that helps regulate the immune system. The genetic cause of familial HLH, type 1 is currently unknown. Familial HLH, type 2 is caused by mutations in the PRF1 gene. Familial HLH, type 3 is caused by mutations in the UNC13D gene. Familial HLH, type 4 is caused by mutations in the STX11 gene. Familial HLH, type 5 is caused by mutations in the STXBP2 gene.  All of the genes that cause HLH serve as the instructions for proteins that help destroy or turn off activated immune cells that are no longer needed. Changes in these genes lead to an overproduction of immune cells which results in an excessive immune response and the many signs and symptoms of familial HLH. The acquired causes of HLH include: infection, medications that suppress the immune system, autoimmune diseases, immunodeficiencies, certain types of cancer and/or metabolic diseases.

Question: What causes 15q11.2 microdeletion ?
Answer: What causes a 15q11.2 microdeletion? A 15q11.2 microdeletion may occur randomly for the first time in an affected person (a de novo mutation), or it may be inherited from a parent with the microdeletion. A blood test to look at the parents' chromosomes is needed to find out how the microdeletion occurred. When a 15q11.2 microdeletion occurs as a de novo mutation, it is due to a random error - either during the formation of a parent's egg or sperm cell, or very soon after conception (fertilization of the egg). A parent with the microdeletion has a 50% chance with each pregnancy to pass on the microdeletion. The features of 15q11.2 microdeletion occur because the deleted region of the chromosome contains several genes that are important for normal growth and development. It is not yet clear why there is a large range of features and severity among people with a 15q11.2 microdeletion, or why some people are unaffected.

Question: What causes Iridocorneal endothelial syndrome ?
Answer: What causes iridocorneal endothelial (ICE) syndrome? The cause of this disease is unknown. However, it has been theorized that a viral infection, such as Herpes simplex virus (HSV) or Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) may be the trigger that causes the cornea to swell.

Question: What causes Kawasaki syndrome ?
Answer: What genes are related to Kawasaki syndrome? A variation in the ITPKC gene has been associated with an increased risk of developing Kawasaki syndrome. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate 3-kinase C. This enzyme helps limit the activity of immune system cells called T cells, which identify foreign substances and defend the body against infection. Reducing the activity of T cells when appropriate prevents the overproduction of immune proteins called cytokines that lead to inflammation and can, when present in large quantities, can cause tissue damage. Researchers believe that variations in the ITPKC gene may interfere with the body's ability to reduce T cell activity, leading to inflammation that damages blood vessels and results in the symptoms of this disease. It is likely that other factors, including changes in additional genes, also influence the development of this complex disorder. What causes Kawasaki syndrome? The cause of Kawasaki syndrome isn't known. The body's response to a virus or infection combined with genetic factors may cause the disease. However, no specific virus or infection has been found, and the role of genetics is not well understood. Kawasaki syndrome is not contagious; it can't be passed from one child to another.

Question: What causes GM1 gangliosidosis ?
Answer: What causes GM1 gangliosidosis? All three types of GM1 gangliosidosis are caused by mutations (changes) in the GLB1 gene. This gene gives the body instructions to make an enzyme called beta-galactosidase (-galactosidase), which plays an important role in the brain. The enzyme resides in compartments within cells called lysosomes, where it helps break down certain molecules, including a substance called GM1 ganglioside. GM1 ganglioside is important for nerve cell function in the brain. Mutations in the GLB1 gene may lower or eliminate the activity of the -galactosidase enzyme, keeping GM1 ganglioside from being broken down. As a result, it accumulates to toxic levels in tissues and organs, particularly in the brain. This accumulation leads to the destruction of nerve cells, causing the features of the condition. In general, people with higher enzyme activity levels usually have milder features than those with lower activity levels.

Question: What causes WaterhouseFriderichsen syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome? Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome is most often associated with meningococcal disease (accounts for 80% of cases). The syndrome also has been associated with other bacterial pathogens, including Streptococcus pneumoniae, group A beta-hemolytic streptococci, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae (group B), Salmonella choleraesuis, Pasteurella multocida, Acinetobacter calcoaceticus, and Plesiomonas shigelloides. It may also be associated with a history of splenectomy. In rare cases, it may be caused by the use of medications that promote blood clotting, low platelet counts, primary antiphospholipid syndrome, renal vein thrombosis or steroid use. While the exact mechanism of disease is not clear, activation of several cytokine mediators appears to lead to sepsis and shock.

Question: What causes Denys-Drash syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Denys-Drash syndrome? Denys-Drash syndrome is caused by mutations in the WT1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein (the WT1 protein) that regulates the activity of other genes by attaching (binding) to specific regions of DNA. The WT1 protein plays a role in the development of the kidneys and gonads (ovaries in females and testes in males) before birth. The WT1 gene mutations that cause Denys-Drash syndrome lead to the production of an abnormal protein that cannot bind to DNA. As a result, the activity of certain genes is unregulated, which impairs the development of the kidneys and reproductive organs. Abnormal development of these organs leads to diffuse glomerulosclerosis (where scar tissue forms throughout glomeruli, the tiny blood vessels in the kidney that filter waste from blood) and gonadal dysgenesis, which are characteristic features of Denys-Drash syndrome. The abnormal gene activity caused by the loss of normal WT1 protein also increases the risk of developing Wilms tumor in affected individuals.

Question: What causes Microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type 1 ?
Answer: What causes microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type 1 (MOPD1)? Microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type 1 (MOPD1) has been shown to be caused by mutations in the RNU4ATAC gene.

Question: What causes Cutaneous mastocytosis ?
Answer: What causes cutaneous mastocytosis? Most cases of cutaneous mastocytosis are caused by changes (mutations) in the KIT gene. This gene encodes a protein that helps control many important cellular processes such as cell growth and division; survival; and movement. This protein is also important for the development of certain types of cells, including mast cells (immune cells that are important for the inflammatory response). Certain mutations in the KIT gene can leads to an overproduction of mast cells. In cutaneous mastocytosis, excess mast cells accumulate in the skin, leading to the many signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: What causes Triple A syndrome ?
Answer: What causes triple A syndrome? Mutations in the AAAS gene cause triple A syndrome in many affected individuals. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called ALADIN, whose function is not well understood. Within cells, ALADIN is found in the nuclear envelope, the structure that surrounds the nucleus and separates it from the rest of the cell. Based on its location, ALADIN is thought to be involved in the movement of molecules into and out of the nucleus of the cell. Mutations in the AAAS gene prevent this protein from reaching its proper location in the cell, which may disrupt the movement of molecules. Researchers suspect that DNA repair proteins may be unable to enter the nucleus if ALADIN is missing from the nuclear envelope. DNA damage that is not repaired can cause the cell to become unstable and lead to cell death. Although the nervous system is particularly vulnerable to DNA damage, it remains unknown exactly how mutations in the AAAS gene lead to the signs and symptoms of triple A syndrome. Some individuals with triple A syndrome do not have an identified mutation in the AAAS gene; in these individuals, the genetic cause of the disorder is unknown.

Question: What causes Dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy ?
Answer: What causes dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA)? DRPLA is caused by a mutation in the ATN1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called atrophin 1. Although the function of atrophin 1 is unclear, it likely plays an important role in nerve cells (neurons) in many areas of the brain. The ATN1 mutation that causes DRPLA involves a DNA segment known as a CAG trinucleotide repeat. This segment is made up of a series of three DNA building blocks (cytosine, adenine, and guanine) that appear multiple times in a row on the gene. Normally, this CAG segment is repeated 6 to 35 times within the ATN1 gene. In people with DRPLA, the CAG segment is repeated at least 48 times (and sometimes much more). The abnormally long CAG trinucleotide repeat changes the structure of the atrophin 1 protein, which then accumulates in neurons and interferes with normal cell functions. The dysfunction and eventual death of these neurons lead to the signs and symptoms associated with DRPLA.

Question: What causes Retroperitoneal fibrosis ?
Answer: What causes retroperitoneal fibrosis? The cause of retroperitoneal fibrosis is unknown in many cases (idiopathic). Some cases occur in association with other factors, including: Asbestos exposure Smoking Neoplasms (tumor) Infections Trauma Radiotherapy Surgery Use of certain drugs

Question: What causes Pachygyria ?
Answer: What causes pachygyria? Pachygyria, also called "incomplete lissencephaly," may be caused by various non-genetic (environmental) and genetic factors that play a role in impairing the development of the outer region of the brain (the cerebral cortex). The cerebral cortex is responsible for conscious movement and thought, and should have deep convolutions (gyri) and grooves (sulci), which are formed by "infolding" of the cerebral cortex. During normal embryonic growth, immature cells that later develop into specialized nerve cells (neurons) normally migrate to the brain's surface, making several layers of cells. When this process is impaired, the cells don't migrate to their locations, resulting in too few cell layers and absence (agyria) or incomplete development (pachygyria) of gyri. Environmental factors that contribute to the condition may include intrauterine infection during pregnancy (such as a virus), and insufficient flow of oxygenated blood to the brain (ischemia) during fetal development. More than 25 syndromes due to abnormal migration of neurons have been reported; in some of these cases, the genetic cause and pattern of inheritance depends on that of the specific syndrome. Mutations in several genes have been identified in people with abnormalities of cortical development, including the KIF5C, KIF2A, DYNC1H1, WDR62, and TUBG1 genes. Studies have also found that isolated lissencephaly may result from mutations in the LIS1 and XLIS (also called DCX) genes. People interested in learning about the cause of pachygyria in themselves or family members should speak with their health care provider or a a genetics professional.

Question: What causes Alopecia universalis ?
Answer: What causes alopecia universalis? The exact underlying cause of alopecia universalis (AU) is not currently known. AU is an advanced form of alopecia areata (AA), a condition that leads to round patches of hair loss. AA is thought to be an autoimmune condition in which an affected person's immune system mistakenly attacks the hair follicles. Genetic studies have found that AA and AU are associated with several immune-related genes; however, they are likely complex disorders caused by the interaction of multiple genetic and environmental factors. This means that even if someone inherits a genetic predisposition to the condition, they may not become affected unless something in the environment triggers the onset of the condition.

Question: What causes Cornelia de Lange syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Cornelia de Lange syndrome? Most cases (approximately 65%) of Cornelia de Lange syndrome (CdLS) are caused by changes (mutations) in the NIPBL gene. An additional 5% of people affected by the condition have mutations in one of four known genes (SMC1A, SMC3, HDAC8 and RAD21). Many of the genes associated with CdLS encode proteins that play an important role in human development before birth. Mutations in these genes may result in an abnormal protein that is not able to carry out its normal function. This is thought to interfere with early development leading to the many signs and symptoms of CdLS. In 30% of people with CdLS, the underlying genetic cause of the condition is unknown.

Question: What causes Non-classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency ?
Answer: What causes non-classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency? Non-classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency (NCAH) is caused by changes (mutations) in the CYP21A2 gene. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called 21-hydroxylase, which is found in the adrenal glands. The adrenal glands are cone-shaped organs that sit on top of the kidneys and are responsible for releasing various types of hormones that the body needs to function. Mutations in CYP21A2 lead to deficient levels of 21-hydroxylase which cause low levels of hormones such as cortisol and/or aldosterone and an overproduction of androgens (male hormones such as testosterone). Cortisol is a hormone that affects energy levels, blood sugar levels, blood pressure, and the body's response to stress, illness, and injury. Aldosterone helps the body maintain the proper level of sodium (salt) and water and helps maintain blood pressure. Irregular levels of these hormones lead to the signs and symptoms of NCAH. The amount of functional 21-hydroxylase enzyme determines the severity of the disorder. People with NCAH have CYP21A2 mutations that result in the production of reduced amounts of the enzyme, but more enzyme than the classic form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia.

Question: What causes Hanhart syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Hanhart syndrome syndrome? The exact underlying cause of Hanhart syndrome is currently unknown. However, researchers suspect that there may be genetic and/or environmental factors that contribute to the development of the condition. To date, no specific disease-causing genes have been identified. Possible environmental factors including: Exposure of the pregnant mother to radiation, teratogenic medications, or hypothermia Trauma or disrupted blood flow to the baby in the womb Chorionic villus sampling procedures (when performed too early in the pregnancy)

Question: What causes Pigmented purpuric eruption ?
Answer: What causes pigmented purpuric eruption? The cause of pigmented purpuric eruption is unknown. Occasionally, it occurs as a reaction to a medication, food additive, viral infection or following exercise. In rare cases, there appears to be a genetic component.

Question: What causes Cowden syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Cowden syndrome? Most cases of Cowden syndrome are caused by changes (mutations) in the PTEN gene. PTEN is a tumor suppressor gene which means that it encodes a protein that helps keep cells from growing and dividing too rapidly or in an uncontrolled way. Mutations in PTEN result in a defective protein that is unable to carry out its normal role. This leads to the development of the various tumors and cancers associated with Cowden syndrome. Rarely, Cowden syndrome is caused by mutations in KLLN, SDHB, SDHC, SDHD, PIK3CA or AKT1. Some affected families have no identifiable mutation in any of the genes associated with Cowden syndrome; in these families, the exact underlying cause is unknown.

Question: What causes Hereditary lymphedema type II ?
Answer: What causes hereditary lymphedema type II? The cause of hereditary lymphedema type II is unknown. The condition is thought to be genetic because it tends to run in families. Researchers have studied many genes associated with the lymphatic system; however, to date, no specific genetic change has been associated with this type of lymphedema.

Question: What causes Subacute cerebellar degeneration ?
Answer: What causes subacute cerebellar degeneration? Subacute cerebellar degeneration may occur when the body's immune system attacks healthy tissue, either for unknown reasons or as an abnormal reaction to an underlying cancer. These cases are referred to as paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration. Subacute cerebellar degeneration may also occur due to thiamine deficiency. Causes of thiamin deficiency include alcoholism, recurrent vomiting, gastric surgery, and diets poor in this B vitamin. These cases are referred to as alcoholic/nutritional cerebellar degeneration. For further information pertaining to the neurological effects of severe thiamine deficiency, see the following link to the Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome resource page. http://rarediseases.info.nih.gov/gard/6843/wernicke-korsakoff-syndrome/Resources/1

Question: What causes Acute intermittent porphyria ?
Answer: What causes acute intermittent porphyria (AIP)? AIP is caused by the deficiency of an enzyme called porphobilinogen deaminase (PBGD), also known as hydroxymethylbilane synthase (HMBS) and formerly known as uroporphyrinogen I-synthase. The deficiency of PBGD is caused by a mutation in the HMBS gene. The HMBS gene is the only gene known to be associated with AIP. However, the deficiency of PBGD alone is not enough to cause AIP. Other activating factors (e.g., hormones, drugs, dietary changes) must also be present.

Question: What causes Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis ?
Answer: What causes cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis? Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis is caused by mutations in the CYP27A1 gene. This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.

Question: What causes Marden-Walker syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Marden-Walker syndrome? The underlying cause of Marden-Walker syndrome has not been clearly established. It appears to be a developmental disorder of the central nervous system and is likely to be the expression of various heterogeneous diseases.

Question: What causes Schizencephaly ?
Answer: What causes schizencephaly? The exact cause of schizencephaly is unknown. A small number of people with schizencephaly are found to have changes (mutations) in one of four genes: EMX2, SIX3, SHH, and COL4A1. Rarely, schizencephaly can affect more than one family member. This supports a genetic cause in some cases. Schizencephaly has also been linked to a variety of non-genetic factors, including young maternal age and certain medications and infections that can cause vascular disruptions (disruption of blood flow or blood supply) in a developing baby.

Question: What causes Lymphocytic vasculitis ?
Answer: What causes lymphocytic vasculitis? Lymphocytic vasculitis is thought to be caused by a number of different factors, such as infection, trauma, drug reaction, or an underlying condition such as arthritis.  Because this condition is rare and not yet well understood, it is believed that a full list of possible causes has yet to be assembled.

Question: What causes Bethlem myopathy ?
Answer: What causes Bethlem myopathy? Bethlem myopathy is caused by mutations in the COL6A1, COL6A2, and COL6A3 genes. These genes each provide instructions for making one component of a protein called type VI collagen. This protein plays an important role in muscle, particularly skeletal muscle. Type VI collagen makes up part of the extracellular matrix, an intricate lattice that forms in the space between cells and provides structural support to the muscles. Mutations in the type VI collagen genes result in the formation of abnormal type VI collagen or reduced amounts of type VI collagen. This decrease in normal type VI collagen disrupts the extracellullar matrix surrounding muscle cells, leading to progressive muscle weakness and the other signs and symptoms of Bethlem myopathy.

Question: What causes Mondini dysplasia ?
Answer: What causes Mondini dysplasia? The underlying cause of Mondini dysplasia (MD) in most individuals appears to remain unclear. Some have suggested that retinoids (vitamin A) or other factors a fetus may be exposed to early in pregnancy have contributed to some cases of isolated MD (occurring with no other abnormalities). The potential role of these factors has created increased difficulty in determining the real cause of isolated MD. Mutations in the SLC26A4 gene cause both Pendred syndrome and DFNB4 (non-syndromic hearing loss with inner ear abnormalities), which are both associated with MD. Though mutations in the SLC26A4 gene have also been found in individuals with enlarged vestibular aqueduct (EVA) with and without MD, studies have shown there does not appear to be a relationship between isolated MD and the SLC26A4 gene. Thus hearing impairment in individuals with isolated MD may be caused by factors other than mutations in the SLC26A4 gene. More recently, a type of mutation called a microdeletion (a tiny loss of genetic material on a chromosome that may span several genes) involving the POU3F4 gene on the X chromosome was detected in some individuals with familial MD. In cases where Mondini dysplasia is associated with a specific syndrome, the cause of the syndrome in the affected individual is assumed to be related to the occurrence of MD in those cases. Syndromes that have been associated with MD include Klippel Feil syndrome, Pendred syndrome, DiGeorge syndrome, and some chromosomal trisomies.

Question: What causes Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans ?
Answer: What causes Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans? The cause of DFSP is unknown but an injury to the affected skin may be a predisposing factor. Trauma at the affected site has been reported in approximately 10-20% of patients. Recent advances have shown that in approximately 90% of cases, dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans is associated with a rearrangement (translocation) of genetic material between chromosomes 17 and 22 which results in the fusion of two genes. The fused gene produces a protein which some believe may stimulate cells to multiply, leading to the tumor formation seen in dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans. This type of gene change is generally found only in tumor cells and is not inherited.

Question: What causes Serpiginous choroiditis ?
Answer: What causes serpiginous choroiditis? The cause of serpiginous choroiditis is unknown. Speculation exists regarding an association with exposure to various toxic compounds and/or infectious agents. Some researchers believe the condition is related to an organ-specific autoimmune inflammatory process.

Question: What causes Nance-Horan syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Nance-Horan syndrome? Nance-Horan syndrome is caused by a mutation in the NHS gene, which is located on the X chromosome. Some patients have losses (deletions) of part of the chromosome X short arm (p) within the region involving the NHS gene and other genes that are located in this region. These patients may have more problems and the problems may be more serious.

Question: What causes Epidermolysis bullosa acquisita ?
Answer: What causes epidermolysis bullosa acquisita? The underlying cause of epidermolysis bullosa acquisita (EBA) is not known. It is thought to be an autoimmune disorder, which means that the immune system attacks healthy cells by mistake. In EBA, certain immune proteins (usually IgG autoantibodies) mistakenly target and attack a specific type of collagen (a skin protein) involved in "anchoring" the skin. In some milder cases of EBA, the immune proteins involved are thought to be IgA, rather than IgG autoantibodies. The initiating event that leads to autoantibody production is unknown. EBA affecting several family members has been reported, suggesting a genetic component may be involved in some cases. Rarely, people with lupus, a systemic autoimmune disease, develop a generalized blistering skin disease with the features of EBA. EBA has also been associated with Crohn's disease.

Question: What causes Omenn syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Omenn syndrome? Omenn syndrome is a genetically heterogeneous condition (meaning that it may be caused by a number of different genes). While most cases are attributed to mutations in the RAG genes (RAG-1 and RAG2 genes have been mapped to chromosome band 11p13), recent reports describe Omenn syndrome in the absence of RAG mutations. Omenn syndrome caused by mutations in ARTEMIS, ADA, ILRA2, ILRA7, CHD7, and DNA ligase 4 have been described in the medical literature. Some cases of Omenn syndrome have also been found in association with 22q11 microdeletion syndrome.

Question: What causes Moyamoya disease ?
Answer: What causes Moyamoya disease? In some families, risk for moyamoya disease is inherited. Changes in the RNF213 gene have been associated with the condition. There are other gene changes involved in moyamoya disease, that remain to be found. Factors such as infection or inflammation, likely also play a role in the condition's development in these families. Other people develop moyamoya syndrome or phenomenon. Moyamoya syndrome can occur in association with many different conditions, such as with infections, atherosclerosis (clogged arteries), blood disorders (for example sickle cell disease or beta thalassemia), vasculitis, autoimmune conditions (for example Lupus, thyroid disorders, Sneddon syndrome), connective tissue disorders (for example neurofibromatosis (NF) type 1 or Tuberous sclerosis), chromosome disorders, metabolic diseases, head trauma or radiation, brain tumors, and heart disease, to name a few.

Question: What causes Muir-Torre syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Muir-Torre syndrome? Muir-Torre syndrome is a subtype of Lynch syndrome and may be caused by changes (mutations) in either the MLH1, MSH2, or MSH6 gene. These genes give the body instructions to make proteins needed for repairing DNA. The proteins help fix mistakes that are made when DNA is copied before cells divide. When one of these genes is mutated and causes the related protein to be absent or nonfunctional, the number of DNA mistakes that do not get repaired increases substantially. The affected cells do not function normally, increasing the risk of tumor formation. The MSH2 gene is responsible for MTS in the majority of cases. Mutations in MLH1 and MSH2 have the most severe effect. Not everyone diagnosed with MTS will have a detectable mutation in one of these genes. Other, unidentified genes may also play a role in the development of the condition.

Question: What causes Juvenile retinoschisis ?
Answer: What causes juvenile retinoschisis? Mutations in the RS1 gene cause most cases of juvenile retinoschisis. The RS1 gene provides instructions for producing a protein called retinoschisin, which is found in the retina. Studies suggest that retinoschisin plays a role in the development and maintenance of the retina, perhaps playing a role in cell adhesion (the attachment of cells together). RS1 gene mutations lead to a reduced amount or complete absence of retinoschisin, which can cause tiny splits (schisis) or tears to form in the retina. This damage often forms a "spoke-wheel" pattern in the macula, which can be seen during an eye examination. In about half of individuals, these abnormalities are seen in the area of the macula, affecting visual acuity. In the other half, the sides of the retina are affected, resulting in impaired peripheral vision. Some individuals with juvenile retinoschisis do not have a mutation in the RS1 gene. In these individuals, the cause of the disorder is unknown.

Question: What causes Hashimoto's encephalitis ?
Answer: What causes Hashimoto's encephalitis? The exact cause of Hashimoto's encephalitis (HE) is unknown, but is thought to relate to autoimmune or other autoinflammatory processes. While it is associated with Hashimoto's thyroiditis, the exact nature of the relationship between the two conditions is unclear. It does not appear to be directly related to hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism.

Question: What causes Mnire's disease ?
Answer: What causes Mnire's disease? The underlying cause of Mnire's disease is unknown, although it probably results from a combination of environmental and genetic factors. Possible factors that have been studied include viral infections; trauma to the middle ear; middle ear infection (otitis media); head injury; a hereditary predisposition; syphilis; allergies; abnormal immune system responses; migraines; and noise pollution. The symptoms of Mnire's disease are thought to relate to changes in fluid volume in the inner ear, which contains structures necessary for normal hearing and balance. Changes in fluid volume may disrupt signals sent from the inner ear to the brain, or may lead to tears or ruptures of the structures that affect hearing and balance. More detailed information about the causes of symptoms associated with Mnire's disease is available on NIDCD's Web site.

Question: What causes Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ?
Answer: What causes familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy? Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is caused by mutations in any of several genes. The genes most commonly responsible are the MYH7, MYBPC3, TNNT2, and TNNI3 genes. Other genes that have not yet been identified may also be responsible for familial HCM. The genes known to be responsible for familial HCM give the body instructions to make proteins that play important roles in contraction of the heart muscle. The proteins form structures in muscle cells called sarcomeres, which are needed for muscle contractions. Sarcomeres are made of protein fibers that attach to each other and release, allowing muscles to contract. The contractions of heart muscle are needed to pump blood to the rest of the body. While it is unclear exactly how mutations in these genes cause familial HCM, they are thought to lead to abnormal structure or function of sarcomeres, or reduce the amount of proteins made. When the function of sarcomeres is impaired, normal heart muscle contractions are disrupted.

Question: What causes Orofaciodigital syndrome 2 ?
Answer: What causes orofaciodigital syndrome type 2? Orofaciodigital syndrome type 2 is caused by mutations (changes) of an as yet unidentified gene.

Question: What causes Agenesis of the dorsal pancreas ?
Answer: What causes agenesis of the dorsal pancreas? Partial or complete agenesis of the dorsal pancreas results from the failure of the dorsal pancreatic bud to form the body and tail of the pancreas in the developing fetus. It may occur from the absence, or regression of, the dorsal bud during fetal development. Heredity may play a role in the development of this condition, but further research is needed to clarify this. There have been reports in the literature of the condition being associated (rarely) with other congenital diseases, specifically a very rare disorder called polysplenia/heterotaxy syndrome. In this case, it may occur due to errors in development of the asymmetric organs and may be associated with benign to severe congenital cardiac (heart) malformations.

Question: What causes Brody myopathy ?
Answer: What causes Brody disease? Brody disease can be caused by mutations in the gene ATP2A1. In general, genes contain the information needed to make functional molecules called proteins. These proteins are required for our bodies cells (and ultimately tissues, like our muscles) to work correctly. Gene mutations can result in faulty proteins. The ATP2A1 gene tells the body how to make a protein called SERCA Ca(2+)-ATPase. This protein is involved in moving calcium around in the cell, which is important for normal muscle contraction. Mutations in this gene results in problems with calcium transportation in the cell, and ultimately problems with muscle contraction. Not all people with Brody disease have mutations in the ATP2A1 gene. There are likely other gene mutations, that have not yet been identified, that can cause this disease.

Question: What causes CADASIL ?
Answer: What causes CADASIL? CADASIL is caused by a mutation in the NOTCH3 gene. The NOTCH3 gene gives the body instructions to make the Notch3 receptor protein, needed for normal function and survival of vascular smooth muscle cells. Mutations in NOTCH3 cause the body to make an abnormal protein, thus impairing the function and survival of vascular smooth muscle cells and causing these cells to self-destruct. The loss of vascular smooth muscle cells in the brain causes blood vessel damage that leads to the characteristic features of CADASIL.

Question: What causes Bell's palsy ?
Answer: What causes Bell's palsy?

Question: What causes EEC syndrome ?
Answer: What causes EEC syndrome? Approximately 90% of individuals with EEC syndrome have a causative mutation identified in the TP63 gene. The TP63 gene codes for the p63 protein, which plays a critical role in early development of the ectoderm-the layers of tissue that develop into the skin, hair, teeth, and nails. The p63 protein is additionally thought to play a role in the development of the limbs, facial features, urinary system, and other organs. Individuals that have EEC syndrome due to a mutation in the TP63 gene are classified as having EEC syndrome type 3 (EEC3). In approximately 10% of individuals, EEC syndrome is caused by a mutation on a region of the q (long) arm of chromosome 7. Individuals that have EEC syndrome due to a mutation on the q arm of chromosome 7 are classified as having EEC syndrome type 1 (EEC1). Rarely, EEC syndrome can be found in individuals that do not have mutations in either the TP63 gene or the q arm of chromosome 7.

Question: What causes Ollier disease ?
Answer: What causes Ollier disease? The exact cause of Ollier disease is not known. It is usually a sporadic, non-familial disorder, however, in some cases, it may be inherited as an autosomal dominant genetic trait.

Question: What causes Proteus syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Proteus syndrome? Proteus syndrome is caused by mutations in the AKT1 gene. This genetic change is not inherited from a parent; it arises randomly in one cell during the early stages of development before birth. As cells continue to grow and divide, some cells will have the mutation and others will not. This mixture of cells with and without a genetic mutation is known as mosaicism. The AKT1 gene helps regulate cell growth and division. (proliferation) and cell death. A mutation in this gene disrupts a cell's ability to regulate its own growth, allowing it to grow and divide abnormally. Increased cell proliferation in various tissues and organs leads to the abnormal growth characteristics of Proteus syndrome. Studies suggest that AKT1 gene mutations are more common in groups of cells that experience overgrowth than in the parts of the body that grow normally.

Question: What causes Neonatal progeroid syndrome ?
Answer: What causes neonatal progeroid syndrome? The exact underlying cause of neonatal progeroid syndrome is unknown. Scientists suspect that it is a genetic condition; however, a disease-causing gene has not been identified.

Question: What causes Thanatophoric dysplasia ?
Answer: What causes thanatophoric dysplasia? Thanatophoric dysplasia is caused by mutations in the FGFR3 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that is involved in the development and maintenance of bone and brain tissue. Mutations in this gene cause the FGFR3 protein to be overly active, which leads to the severe problems with bone growth that are seen in thanatophoric dysplasia. It is not known how FGFR3 mutations cause the brain and skin abnormalities associated with this disorder.

Question: What causes Antisynthetase syndrome ?
Answer: What causes antisynthetase syndrome? The exact underlying cause of antisynthetase syndrome is currently unknown. However, it is considered an autoimmune disease. Autoimmune disorders occur when the body's immune system attacks and destroys healthy body tissue by mistake. In antisynthetase syndrome, specifically, the production of autoantibodies (antibodies that attack normal cells instead of disease-causing agents) that recognize and attack certain enzymes in the body called 'aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases' appears to be linked to the cause of the syndrome. Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are involved in protein synthesis within the body. The exact role of autoantibodies in causation of antisynthetase syndrome is not yet known.

Question: What causes Ovarian carcinosarcoma ?
Answer: Is there a hereditary cause for ovarian carcinosarcoma? Ovarian carcinosarcoma is not thought to be caused by an inherited gene mutation.  However, one article in the medical literature suggests that an inherited mutation in the BRCA2 gene contributed to the development of ovarian carcinosarcoma in one woman.

Question: What causes 21-hydroxylase deficiency ?
Answer: What causes salt-wasting, simple virilizing, and nonclassical 21-hydroxylase-deficient congenital adrenal hyperplasia? Salt-wasting, simple virilizing, and late-onset 21-hydroxylase deficiency are all caused by mutations in the human 21-hydroxylase gene (CYP21A2).

Question: What causes Craniopharyngioma ?
Answer: What causes craniopharyngioma? Craniopharyngiomas are thought to arise from epithelial remnants of the craniopharyngeal duct or Rathke's pouch (adamantinomatous type tumours) or from metaplasia of squamous epithelial cell rests that are remnants of the part of the stomadeum that contributed to the buccal mucosa (squamous papillary type tumours).

Question: What causes Nephrocalcinosis ?
Answer: What causes nephrocalcinosis? Nephrocalcinosis may be caused by a variety of things, including underlying disorders or conditions, medications or supplements, and infections. Causes may include: Primary hyperparathyroidism is the single most common cause of nephrocalcinosis in adults. While nephrocalcinosis is a relatively rare complication (5%), primary hyperparathryroidism is relatively common, especially in the elderly. Rarely, hyperparathyroidism can be associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1). Distal renal tubular acidosis (RTA) is the second most common cause of medullary nephrocalcinosis. hypervitaminosis-D states resulting from excessive treatment of hypoparathyroidism, self-administration of vitamins, and the presence of a granulomatous disease, such as sarcoidosis. Any other cause of hypercalcemia (increased calcium in the blood), particularly when associated with hypercalciuria (increased calcium in the urine). Causes include milk-alkali syndrome (due to excess ingestion of antacids), hyperparathyroidism, and malignant disease. Idiopathic hypercalciuria,a common metabolic disease, is also a known cause. Nephrocalcinosis and renal failure are increasingly being recognized as common complications of phosphate supplementation, particularly in the elderly.Phosphate supplements may contribute to renal calcifications in children with hypophosphatemic rickets. Medullary sponge kidney Rapidly progressive osteoporosis due to immobilization, menopause, aging, or steroids. Primary (familial) hyperoxaluria, or secondary hyperoxaluria due to increased intake of oxalates, increased absorption due to intestinal disease, or ingestion of ethylene glycol. Chronic disorders such as Bartter syndrome, primary hyperaldosteronism, Liddle syndrome, and 11-beta hydroxylase deficiency are associated with reduced urine citrate and tubular damage, leading to calcium deposits. Autosomal dominant hypophosphatemic rickets and X-linked hypophosphatemic conditions, possibly due to phosphate supplementation for the condition. Premature, sick infants have been observed to develop diffuse nephrocalcinosis, typically when exposed to diuretic therapy or prolonged O 2 therapy. Other causes may include the use of certain medications such as acetazolamide; tuberculosis of the kidney; and infections related to AIDS

Question: What causes Klinefelter syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Klinefelter syndrome? Klinefelter syndrome usually occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm). An error in cell division called nondisjunction results in a reproductive cell with an abnormal number of chromosomes. For example, an egg or sperm cell may gain one or more extra copies of the X chromosome as a result of nondisjunction. If one of these atypical reproductive cells contributes to the genetic makeup of a child, the child will have one or more extra X chromosomes in each of the body's cells. Most often, Klinefelter syndrome is caused by a single extra copy of the X chromosome, resulting in a total of 47 chromosomes per cell. Males normally have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome in each cell (46, XY), while females have two X chromosomes (46, XX). People with Klinefelter syndrome usually have two X chromosomes and one Y chromosome (47, XXY). Some people with Klinefelter syndrome have the extra X chromosome in only some of their cells; these people are said to have mosaic Klinefelter syndrome. It is estimated that about half of the time, the cell division error occurs during development of the sperm, while the remainder are due to errors in egg development. Women who have pregnancies after age 35 have a slightly increased chance of having offspring with this syndrome. The features of Klinefelter syndrome are due to the extra copies of genes on the extra X chromosome, which can alter male sexual development.

Question: What causes Periodic fever, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis and adenitis ?
Answer: What causes periodic fever, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis, cervical adenitis (PFAPA)? The cause of PFAPA is unknown, although viral or autoimmune causes have been suggested.

Question: What causes Primary Familial Brain Calcification ?
Answer: What causes primary familial brain calcification (PFBC)? PFBC is a genetic condition. Mutations in the SLC20A2 gene are thought to cause about half of the cases of PFBC. Mutations in the PDGFRB and PDGFB genes have also been shown to cause PFBC. In some cases, the genes responsible have not yet been found.

Question: What causes Necrotizing fasciitis ?
Answer: What causes necrotizing fasciitis? Bacteria that can cause necrotizing fasciitis (NF) include the following: Klebsiella, Clostridium, and Escherichia coli; group A Streptococcus is the most common cause. Anyone can develop NF. Approximately 50% of necrotizing fasciitis cases caused by streptococcal bacteria occur in young and otherwise healthy individuals. Although necrotizing fasciitis most frequently develops after trauma that causes a break in the skin, it can also develop after minor trauma that occurs without a break in the skin. NF can occur as a complication of a surgical procedure; it can also occur at the site of a relatively minor injury such as an insect bite or an injection. In addition, underlying illnesses which weaken the immune system may increase the risk that a person will develop NF. Studies have even suggested a possible relationship between the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) during varicella infections and the development of necrotizing fasciitis.

Question: What causes Spastic diplegia cerebral palsy ?
Answer: What causes spastic diplegia cerebral palsy? Spastic diplegia cerebral palsy occurs when the portion of the brain that controls movement is damaged or develops abnormally. This usually occurs before birth, but can happen at any time while the brain is still developing (usually before age 2). In many cases, the exact underlying cause is unknown; however, the condition has been associated with genetic abnormalities; congenital brain malformations; maternal infections or fevers; injury before, during or shortly after birth; problems with blood flow to the brain; and severe lack of oxygen to the brain. The following medical conditions or events may increase the risk for a child to be born with or develop cerebral palsy: Premature birth Low birth weight (less than 5 and a half pounds) Mothers with infections or high fevers during pregnancy Multiple births (twins, triplets and other multiples) Rh incompatibility (blood type incompatibility between mother and child) Mothers with thyroid abnormalities, intellectual disability, excess protein in the urine, or seizures Breech presentation Complicated labor and delivery Low Apgar score Newborn jaundice

Question: What causes Troyer syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Troyer syndrome? Troyer syndrome is caused by mutations in the SPG20 gene. This gene gives the body instructions to make a protein called spartin, which is present in many body tissues, including those of the nervous system. However, the function of this protein is not fully understood. It is thought to play various roles needed for the functions of cells. Troyer syndrome is assumed to be caused by a loss of function of the spartin protein. More research on the normal functions of the spartin protein is needed to better understand exactly how mutations in the SPG20 gene cause the features of Troyer syndrome.

Question: What causes Cryptogenic organizing pneumonia ?
Answer: What causes cryptogenic organizing pneumonia? The underlying cause of cryptogenic organizing pneumonia (COP) is unknown (idiopathic). Organizing pneumonia is specifically diagnosed as COP when, among other characteristics, no definite cause for the organizing pneumonia is found. In other words, any known cause for the pneumonia must be ruled out before stating that a person is affected by COP. Other forms of organizing pneumonia may result from infection (bacteria, viruses, parasites, or fungi); drugs; or a reaction to radiation therapy for breast cancer. Organizing pneumonia can also be associated with specific disorders such as certain connective tissue disorders, blood malignancies (cancers), or ulcerative colitis.

Question: What causes Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis ?
Answer: What causes nonalcoholic steatohepatitis? The underlying cause of NASH remains unclear. It most often occurs in persons who are middle-aged and overweight or obese. Many patients with NASH have elevated blood lipids, such as cholesterol and triglycerides, and many have diabetes or prediabetes. However, not every obese person or every patient with diabetes has NASH. Furthermore, some patients with NASH are not obese, do not have diabetes, and have normal blood cholesterol and lipids. NASH can occur without any apparent risk factor and can even occur in children. While the underlying reason for the liver injury that causes NASH is not known, several factors are possible candidates: insulin resistance release of toxic inflammatory proteins by fat cells (cytokines) oxidative stress (deterioration of cells) inside liver cells

Question: What causes Myhre syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Myhre syndrome? Myhre syndrome is caused by mutations in the SMAD4 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein involved in transmitting chemical signals from the cell surface to the nucleus. This signaling pathway, called the transforming growth factor beta (TGF-) pathway, allows the environment outside the cell to affect how the cell produces other proteins. As part of this pathway, the SMAD4 protein interacts with other proteins to control the activity of particular genes. These genes influence many areas of development. Some researchers believe that the SMAD4 gene mutations that cause Myhre syndrome impair the ability of the SMAD4 protein to attach (bind) properly with the other proteins involved in the signaling pathway. Other studies have suggested that these mutations result in an abnormally stable SMAD4 protein that remains active in the cell longer. Changes in SMAD4 binding or availability may result in abnormal signaling in many cell types, which affects development of several body systems and leads to the signs and symptoms of Myhre syndrome.

Question: What causes McCune Albright syndrome ?
Answer: What causes McCune Albright syndrome? McCune Albright syndrome (MAS) is caused by a change (mutation) in the GNAS gene. This gene provides instructions for making part of a protein that ultimately influences many cell functions by regulating hormone activity. GNAS gene mutations that cause MAS result in a protein that causes the enzyme adenylate cyclase to be constantly turned on. This, in turn, leads to over-production of several hormones, resulting in the signs and symptoms of MAS.

Question: What causes Pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 ?
Answer: What causes pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2? Pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 is caused by mutations in either the WNK1 or WNK4 genes. Mutations in these genes cause salt retention and impaired excretion of potassium and acid, leading to high blood pressure, hyperkalemia (high levels of potassium), and metabolic acidosis.

Question: What causes Eisenmenger syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Eisenmenger syndrome? Eisenmenger syndrome is caused by a defect in the heart. Most often, the defect is one called a ventricular septal defect (VSD), a hole between the two pumping chambers (the left and right ventricles) of the heart. Other heart defects that can lead to Eisenmenger syndrome include atrial septal defect (ASD) and patent ductus arteriosus (PDA).  The hole allows blood that has already picked up oxygen from the lungs to flow abnormally back into the lungs, instead of going out to the rest of the body. Over time, this increased blood flow can damage the small blood vessels in the lungs. This causes high blood pressure in the lungs. As a result, the blood backs up and does not go to the lungs to pick up oxygen. Instead, the blood goes from the right side to the left side of the heart, and oxygen-poor blood travels to the rest of the body.

Question: What causes Yellow nail syndrome ?
Answer: Has a genetic cause of familial yellow nail syndrome been discovered? The exact cause of yellow nail syndrome remains unclear.  There have been reports of several members in the same family being affected with this condition and also reports of children being affected at young ages.  These reports have been used to suggest the possibility a genetic component to yellow nail syndrome.  However, the possibility of a genetic cause for yellow nail syndrome remains a subject of debate, as most cases of this condition occur by chance in individuals who do not have a family history of this condition.  Unfortunately, because there are so few cases of familial yellow nail syndrome, there is limited information and currently no known research about possible genetic causes.

Question: What causes Weill-Marchesani syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Weill-Marchesani syndrome? Weill-Marchesani syndrome is usually caused by mutations in the ADAMTS10 gene. Two families have been found with mutations in different genes, one with a mutation in FBN1 and one with a mutation in LTBP2.

Question: What causes Jejunal atresia ?
Answer: What causes jejunal atresia? Jejunal atresia occurs when the membrane that attaches the small intestines to the abdominal wall (called the mesentery) is partially or completely absent. As a result, a portion of the small intestines (the jejunum) twists around an artery that supplies blood to the colon (the marginal artery). This leads to an intestinal blockage or "atresia." Jejunal atresia typically occurs sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. In these cases, the exact underlying cause is generally unknown; however, scientists suspect that it may be a consequence of disrupted blood flow in the developing fetus. Rarely, more than one family member can be affected by jejunal atresia, suggesting that there may be a genetic component in some cases.

Question: What causes Parkinson disease ?
Answer: What causes Parkinson disease? Parkinson disease occurs when the nerve cells in the brain that make dopamine, a chemical messenger which transmits signals within the brain to produce smooth physical movements, are slowly destroyed. Without dopamine, the nerve cells in the part of the brain known as the substantia nigra cannot properly send messages. This leads to progressive loss of muscle function. Exactly why these brain cells waste away is unknown. Recent studies have shown that people with Parkinson disease also experience damage to the nerve endings that produce the neurotransmitter norepinephrine. Norepinephrine, which is closely related to dopamine, is the main chemical messenger of the sympathetic nervous system, the part of the nervous system that controls the automatic functions of the body, including pulse and blood pressure. The loss of norepinephrine may explain some of the non-motor features seen in Parkinson disease, including fatigue and problems with blood pressure regulation.  More detailed information about the cause of Parkinson disease is available through an information page developed by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS). Click here to view this information.

Question: What causes Joubert syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Joubert syndrome? Joubert syndrome and related disorders may be caused by changes (mutations) in any of many genes (some of which are unknown). The proteins made from these genes are either known, or thought, to affect cell structures called cilia. Cilia are projections on the cell surface that play a role in signaling. They are important for many cell types, including neurons, liver cells and kidney cells. Cilia also play a role in the senses such as sight, hearing, and smell. Mutations in the genes responsible for Joubert syndrome and related disorders cause problems with the structure and function of cilia, likely disrupting important signaling pathways during development. However, it is still unclear how specific developmental abnormalities result from these problems.

Question: What causes MYH-associated polyposis ?
Answer: What causes MYH-associated polyposis? Mutations in the MYH gene cause MYH-associated polyposis. Mutations in this gene prevent cells from correcting mistakes that are made when DNA is copied (DNA replication) in preparation for cell division. As these mistakes build up in a person's DNA, the likelihood of cell overgrowth increases, leading to colon polyps and the possibility of colon cancer.

Question: What causes Primary melanoma of the central nervous system ?
Answer: What causes primary melanoma of the central nervous system? Although the exact cause of this condition is unknown, researchers have identified somatic mutations in the the GNAQ gene in 7 of 19 patients (37 percent) with primary malignant melanocytic tumors of the central nervous system. Somatic mutations are not inherited but occur during a person's lifetime. This mutation makes the Gnaq protein constantly active. The same mutation has been identified in approximately half of patients with intraocular melanoma.

Question: What causes Celiac artery compression syndrome ?
Answer: What causes celiac artery compression syndrome? The cause of celiac artery syndrome is disputed. While it was initially thought to be caused by a restriction of blood supply secondary to compression of the celiac artery (supplies blood to the upper abdominal organs) by the median arcuate ligament (a muscular fibrous band of the diaphragm), other factors have been proposed. It has been suggested that nerve dysfunction might additionally be involved, which could explain some of the associated symptoms such as pain and delayed gastric emptying.

Question: What causes Hydrops, Ectopic calcification, Moth-eaten skeletal dysplasia ?
Answer: What causes HEM? HEM is associated with mutations (changes) in the lamin B receptor (LBR) gene located on chromosome 1, specifically at 1q42.1.  Each person has two copies of the LBR gene - one inherited from mom and the other from dad. People who have two mutated copies of the LBR gene have HEM; thus, the condition is said to be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. The presence of two mutated copies of the LBR gene may affect the structure of the nucleus of the cell as well.

Question: What causes Tylosis with esophageal cancer ?
Answer: What causes Tylosis with esophageal cancer? Mutations in the RHBDF2 gene have been shown to cause the development of this condition.

Question: What causes Leber hereditary optic neuropathy ?
Answer: What causes Leber hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON)? Leber hereditary optic neuropathy is a condition related to changes in mitochondrial DNA. Mutations in the MT-ND1, MT-ND4, MT-ND4L, and MT-ND6 genes cause LHON. These genes are contained in mitochondrial DNA. Mitochondria are structures within cells that convert the energy from food into a form that cells can use. Although most DNA is packaged in chromosomes within the nucleus, mitochondria also have a small amount of their own DNA (known as mitochondrial DNA or mtDNA). The genes related to Leber hereditary optic neuropathy each provide instructions for making a protein involved in normal mitochondrial function. These proteins are part of a large enzyme complex in mitochondria that helps convert oxygen and simple sugars to energy. Mutations in any of the genes disrupt this process. It remains unclear how these genetic changes cause the death of cells in the optic nerve and lead to the specific features of Leber hereditary optic neuropathy. Click here to visit the Genetic Home Reference Web site to learn more about how mutations in these genes cause Leber hereditary optic neuropathy.

Question: What causes Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome? Normally, electrical signals in the heart go through a pathway that helps the heart beat regularly. The wiring of the heart prevents extra beats from occurring and keeps the next beat from happening too soon. In people with Wolff Parkinson White syndrome, there is an extra, or accessory, pathway that may cause a very rapid heart rate. This extra electrical pathway is present at birth. A mutation in the PRKAG2 gene  is the cause of a small percentage of cases of the disorder. Otherwise, little is known about why this extra pathway develops.

Question: What causes Hypolipoproteinemia ?
Answer: What causes familial or genetic hypolipoproteinemia? Cholesterol levels in general are thought to be influenced by genetic factors. Very low levels of lipids (hypolipoproteinemia) is known to be caused by certain genetic conditions, including hypobetalipoproteinemia, abetalipoproteinemia, and chylomicron retention disease.  Hypobetalipoproteinemia is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. Autosomal dominant inheritance is when one mutated copy of the gene that causes a disorder in each cell is needed for a person to be affected. Each affected person usually has one affected parent. Autosomal dominant disorders tend to occur in every generation of an affected family. When a person with an autosomal dominant disorder has a child, there is a 50% chance that their child will inherit the condition.  In some families the condition is due to mutations in a gene called APOB, in other families the underlying mutation has not been identified. People with this condition usually do not experience symptoms. People who inherit two hypobetalipoproteinemia gene mutations may have extremely low levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and apolipoprotein B (apoB). Some of these individuals have no symptoms while others  have developed fatty liver, intestinal fat malabsorption, and neurological problems. Abetalipoproteinemia is a rare disorder with approximately 100 cases described worldwide. Mutations in the MTTP gene cause abetalipoproteinemia. It is passed through families in an autosomal recessive pattern. Click here to learn more about autosomal recessive inheritance. The signs and symptoms of abetalipoproteinemia may include failure to thrive, diarrhea, abnormal star-shaped red blood cells, and fatty, foul-smelling stools in infants, nervous system impairment in children, retinitis pigmentosa and difficulty with balance and walking in childhood or adulthood. Chylomicron retention disease is a rare condition with approximately 40 cases described worldwide and is also inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. The signs and symptoms appear in the first few months of life and may include failure to thrive, diarrhea, fatty, foul-smelling stools, and later nervous system impairment. Other genetic conditions characterized by hypolipoproteinemia include, but is not limited to: Lecithin acyltransferase deficiency Tangier Disease

Question: What causes Congenital adrenal hyperplasia ?
Answer: What causes congenital adrenal hyperplasia? Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) is a group of genetic conditions that can be caused by a change (mutation) in several different genes: 21-hydroxylase deficiency is caused by mutations in the CYP21A2 gene 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency is caused by mutations in the HSD3B2 gene 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency is caused by mutations in the CYP11B1 gene Cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase deficiency is caused by mutations in the POR gene 17-hydroxylase deficiency is caused by mutations in the CYP17A1 gene Congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia is caused by mutations in the STAR gene Most of these genes encode enzymes that the adrenal glands need to make one or more hormones. The adrenal glands are cone-shaped organs that sit on top of the kidneys and are responsible for releasing various types of hormones that the body needs to function. Mutations in these genes lead to deficient levels of enzymes which cause low levels of hormones such as cortisol and/or aldosterone and an overproduction of androgens (male hormones such as testosterone). Cortisol is a hormone that affects energy levels, blood sugar levels, blood pressure, and the body's response to stress, illness, and injury. Aldosterone helps the body maintain the proper level of sodium (salt) and water and helps maintain blood pressure. Irregular levels of these hormones lead to the signs and symptoms of CAH.

Question: What causes Medium-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: What causes medium-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase (MCAD) deficiency? Mutations in the ACADM gene cause medium-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency. Mutations in the ACADM gene lead to inadequate levels of an enzyme called medium-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase. Without sufficient amounts of this enzyme, medium-chain fatty acids from food and fats stored in the body are not metabolized properly. As a result, these fats are not converted to energy, which can lead to characteristic signs and symptoms of this disorder such as lethargy and low blood sugar. Medium-chain fatty acids or partially metabolized fatty acids may accumulate in tissues and can damage the liver and brain, causing serious complications.

Question: What causes Cri du chat syndrome ?
Answer: What causes cri du chat syndrome? Cri du chat syndrome is caused by a deletion of the end of the short (p) arm of chromosome 5. This chromosomal change is written as 5p-. The size of the deletion varies among affected individuals but studies suggest that larger deletions tend to result in more severe intellectual disability and developmental delay than smaller deletions. The signs and symptoms of cri du chat syndrome are probably related to the loss of multiple genes on the short arm of chromosome 5. Researchers believe that the loss of a specific gene, CTNND2, is associated with severe intellectual disability in some people with this condition. They are working to determine how the loss of other genes in this region contributes to the characteristic features of cri du chat syndrome.

Question: What causes Citrullinemia type I ?
Answer: What causes citrullinemia type I? Citrullinemia type I is caused by mutations in the ASS1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme, argininosuccinate synthetase 1, that is responsible for the third step in the urea cycle. Mutations in the ASS1 gene reduce the activity of the enzyme, which disrupts the urea cycle and prevents the body from processing nitrogen effectively. Excess nitrogen (in the form of ammonia) and other byproducts of the urea cycle accumulate in the bloodstream. Ammonia is particularly toxic to the nervous system, which helps explain the neurologic symptoms (such as lethargy, seizures, and ataxia) that are often seen in this condition.

Question: What causes Hyper-IgD syndrome ?
Answer: What causes hyper IgD syndrome? Hyper IgD syndrome is caused by mutations in the gene encoding the enzyme mevalonate kinase (MVK). The mutations lead to a decrease in the enzymatic activity of the gene. The gene is located at chromosome 12q24.

Question: What causes Congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries ?
Answer: What causes congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries? Currently the cause of congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries is not known. Limited data suggests that air pollutants and hair dye may act as environmental risk factors for this rare defect. Also, having a family history of this heart defect is a risk factor. It has been estimated that the recurrence risk in siblings is around 3% to 5%.

Question: What causes Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome ?
Answer: What causes postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome? The underlying cause of postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS) is poorly understood. However, episodes often begin after a pregnancy, major surgery, trauma, or a viral illness and may increase right before a menstrual period. Many researchers suspect that there may be more than one cause for the condition. The following abnormalities can be associated with POTS and may play a role in the development of the condition: Peripheral denervation - reduced nerve stimulation to certain muscles. The lower extremities are generally most affected in people with POTS. Hypovolemia - an abnormal decrease or redistribution of blood in the body Changes in venous function - more specifically, a reduction in the volume of blood that returns to the heart (venous return) when moving from a lying down to a standing position Cardiovascular deconditioning - changes in cardiovascular function Baroreflex abnormalities - the baroreflexes play an important role in blood pressure regulation. When they sense a change in blood pressure, the heart rate is adjusted and the sympathetic nerve system fibers are activated to cause the blood vessels to narrow. Increased activity of the sympathetic nervous system Although most cases of POTS appear to occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition, some affected people report a family history of orthostatic intolerance (an excessively reduced volume of blood returns to the heart when moving from a lying down to a standing position). This suggests that genetic factors may play a role in the development of POTS in some cases. Some studies also suggest that polymorphisms in certain genes (NOS3, ADRB2) may be associated with an increased risk of developing the condition and a change (mutation) in the norepinephrine transporter gene (SLC6A2) has been identified in one family with POTS.

Question: What causes Coccygodynia ?
Answer: What causes coccygodynia? A number of different causes have been associated with coccygodynia. However, the most common cause is a direct fall and injury to the area of the sacrum and coccyx. These types of injuries can occur from various activities, examples include a kick, an injury on a trampoline when one hits the bar or springs that surround the trampoline jumping pad, or from falling from a horse or skis. Another common cause, exclusive to women, is childbirth. The other most common cause of the condition is pregnancy. During the last three months of pregnancy, certain hormones are released in the women's body causing the area between the sacrum and the coccyx to soften and become more mobile. The increased mobility may result in permanent stretching and change and causing inflammation of the tissues surrounding the coccyx. In about one third of all cases of coccygodynia, the cause is unknown. Other less common causes include nerve damage, cysts such as Tarlov cysts, obesity, and a bursitis like condition that can arise in slim patients who have little buttocks fat padding.

Question: What causes Fowler's syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Fowlers syndrome? The cause of Fowler's syndrome is not known. The association of Fowlers syndrome and polycystic ovaries in some patients raises the possibility that the syndrome is linked in some way to impaired muscle membrane stability, owing possibly to a hormonal abnormality. The involvement of such a hormonal abnormality may also explain why it primarily affects premenopausal women.

Question: What causes Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1 ?
Answer: What causes pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1? A specific mutations in the VRK1 gene has caused PCH1 in at least one family. Specific mutations in RARS2 and TSEN54 have also been associated with PCH1. TSEN54 mutations were identified in one case from a family with three siblings with PCH1; DNA was only available in one of the three siblings. Mutations in RARS2 were also identified in one case with PCH1. In general, there is no known genetic cause for the majority of PCH1 cases and no other genes have been linked to PCH1 yet, with the exception of rare cases associated with TSEN54, RARS2 and VRK1 mutations. In fact, only fifteen families with PCH1 have been published thus far; of these, mutations were only identified in 3 families. Further research on these and other candidate genes in PCH1 is necessary to identify mutations involved in the remaining majority of the PCH1 cases.Specific mutations in other genes have been shown to cause the various other forms of pontocerebellar hypoplasia and include the RARS2, TSEN2, TSEN34, and TSEN54 genes. Mutations in three related genes, TSEN2, TSEN34, and TSEN54, can result in PCH2. TSEN54 gene mutations can also cause PCH4 and PCH5.[2951] Mutations in the RARS2 gene can cause PCH6. The genetic cause of PCH3 is unknown.

Question: What causes Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone ?
Answer: What causes syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone? Many things can cause syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH), including brain injury, brain infection, brain abscesses, subarachnoid hemorrhage, encephalitis, meningitis, Guillain-Barr syndrome, delirium tremens, multiple sclerosis, lung cancer, pancreatic cancer, thymoma, ovarian cancer, lymphoma,  pneumonia, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, lung abscess, tuberculosis, cystic fibrosis, surgery, and drugs. SIADH has also been reported in association with AIDS, temporal arteritis, polyarteritis nodosa, sarcoidosis, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, carcinoma of the cervix, olfactory neuroblastoma, and herpes zoster infection of the chest wall. Often the underlying cause of the condition can not be determined. In these cases the condition is said to be idiopathic.

Question: What causes Williams syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Williams syndrome? Williams syndrome is caused by the deletion of genetic material from a specific region of chromosome 7. The deleted region includes more than 25 genes, and researchers believe that a loss of several of these genes probably contributes to the characteristic features of this disorder. CLIP2, ELN, GTF2I, GTF2IRD1, and LIMK1 are among the genes that are typically deleted in people with Williams syndrome. Researchers have found that the loss of the ELN gene is associated with the connective tissue abnormalities and cardiovascular disease (specifically supravalvular aortic stenosis) found in many people with this condition. Studies suggest that deletions of CLIP2, GTF2I, GTF2IRD1, LIMK1, and perhaps other genes may help explain the characteristic difficulties with visual-spatial tasks, unique behavioral characteristics, and other cognitive difficulties seen in people with Williams syndrome. Loss of the GTF2IRD1 gene may also contribute to the distinctive facial features often associated with this condition. Researchers believe that the presence or absence of the NCF1 gene on chromosome 7 is related to the risk of developing hypertension in people with Williams syndrome. When the NCF1 gene is included in the part of the chromosome that is deleted, affected individuals are less likely to develop hypertension. Therefore, the loss of this gene appears to be a protective factor. People with Williams syndrome whose NCF1 gene is not deleted have a higher risk of developing hypertension. The relationship between other genes in the deleted region of chromosome 7 and the signs and symptoms of Williams syndrome is unknown.

Question: What causes Multiple pterygium syndrome Escobar type ?
Answer: What causes multiple pterygium syndrome, Escobar type? Some cases of multiple pterygium syndrome, Escobar type are caused by mutations in the CHRNG gene. There are likely other causes of this syndrome as well which have not yet been identified. As a result, in some cases the cause for the syndrome can not be determined.  Escobar syndrome is usually inherited in an autosomal-recessive fashion.

Question: What causes Mixed connective tissue disease ?
Answer: What causes mixed connective tissue disease? The exact underlying cause of mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) is currently unknown. It is an autoimmune disorder, which means the immune system mistakes normal, healthy cells for those that that body should "fight off." There are ongoing studies exploring how immune system dysfunction may be involved in the development of this condition.

Question: What causes Osteochondritis dissecans ?
Answer: What causes osteochondritis dissecans? In most cases, the exact underlying cause of osteochondritis dissecans is not completely understood. Scientists suspect that it may be due to decreased blood flow to the end of the affected bone, which may occur when repetitive episodes of minor injury and/or stress damage a bone overtime. In some families, osteochondritis dissecans is caused by changes (mutations) in the ACAN gene. In these cases, which are referred to as familial osteochondritis dissecans, the condition generally affects multiple joints and is also associated with short stature and early-onset osteoarthritis. The ACAN gene encodes a protein that is important to the structure of cartilage. Mutations in this gene weaken cartilage, which leads to the various signs and symptoms of familial osteochondritis disssecans.

Question: What causes Schindler disease type 1 ?
Answer: What causes Schindler disease type 1? Schindler disease type 1 is caused by mutations in the NAGA gene. This gene provides instructions for making the enzyme alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase.This enzyme works in the lysosomes  (compartments within cells that digest and recycle materials) to help break down complexes called glycoproteins and glycolipids (sugar molecules attached to certain proteins and fats). More specifically, alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase helps remove a molecule called alpha-N-acetylgalactosamine from sugars in these complexes. Mutations in the NAGA gene interfere with the ability of the alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase enzyme to perform its role in breaking down glycoproteins and glycoliipids. These substances accumulate in the lysosomes and cause cells to malfunction and eventually die. Cell damage in the nervous system and other tissues and organs of the body leads to the signs and symptoms of Schindler disease type 1.

Question: What causes Adenoid cystic carcinoma ?
Answer: What causes adenoid cystic carcinoma? The underlying cause of adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) is not yet known, and no strong genetic or environmental risk factors specific to ACC have been identified. Researchers believe that a combination of various genetic and environmental factors probably interact to ultimately cause a person to develop specific types of cancers. There is ongoing research to learn more about the many factors that contribute to the development of cancer. Cancer is at least partly due to acquired (not inherited) damage or changes to the DNA in certain cells. For example, various studies have shown that chromosomal abnormalities and genetic deletions are present in samples of ACC. However, these genetic abnormalities are present only in the cancer cells, not in the cells with the genetic material that is passed on to offspring (the egg and sperm cells).

Question: What causes Ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency ?
Answer: What causes ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency? Ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency is caused by mutations in the OTC gene. OTC deficiency belongs to a class of genetic diseases called urea cycle disorders. The urea cycle is a sequence of reactions that occurs in liver cells. It processes excess nitrogen, generated when protein is used by the body, to make a compound called urea that is excreted by the kidneys. In OTC deficiency, the enzyme that starts a specific reaction within the urea cycle is damaged or missing. The urea cycle cannot proceed normally, and nitrogen accumulates in the bloodstream in the form of ammonia. Ammonia is especially damaging to the nervous system, so OTC deficiency causes neurological problems as well as eventual damage to the liver.

Question: What causes Hypothalamic dysfunction ?
Answer: What causes hypothalamic dysfunction? Hypothalamic dysfunction may be caused by any of the following : Birth defects of the brain or hypothalamus (e.g. holoprosencephaly, septo-optic dysplasia) Genetic disorders (e.g. Prader-Willi syndrome, growth hormone deficiency) Eating disorders (e.g. anorexia, bulimia) Tumors (e.g. craniopharyngiomas, germinomas, meningiomas, gliomas, ependymomas, and gliomas of the optic nerve) Head trauma (e.g. boxing and varied injuries, birth trauma) Bacterial, viral, or fungal infections Autoimmune disorders (e.g. sarcoidosis) Malnutrition Cranial radiation Surgery Too much iron In some cases of hypothalamic dysfunction, the cause is unknown; these cases are referred to as having idiopathic hypothalamic dysfunction.

Question: What causes Camurati-Engelmann disease ?
Answer: What causes Camurati-Engelmann disease? Mutations in the TGFB1 gene cause Camurati-Engelmann disease. The TGFB1 gene provides instructions for producing a protein called transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF-1). The TGF-1 protein helps control the growth and division (proliferation) of cells, the process by which cells mature to carry out specific functions (differentiation), cell movement (motility), and the self-destruction of cells (apoptosis). The TGF-1 protein is found throughout the body and plays a role in development before birth, the formation of blood vessels, the regulation of muscle tissue and body fat development, wound healing, and immune system function. TGF-1 is particularly abundant in tissues that make up the skeleton, where it helps regulate bone growth, and in the intricate lattice that forms in the spaces between cells (the extracellular matrix). Within cells, the TGF-1 protein is turned off (inactive) until it receives a chemical signal to become active. The TGFB1 gene mutations that cause Camurati-Engelmann disease result in the production of a TGF-1 protein that is always turned on (active). Overactive TGF-1 proteins lead to increased bone density and decreased body fat and muscle tissue, contributing to the signs and symptoms of Camurati-Engelmann disease. Some individuals with Camurati-Engelmnan disease do not have identified mutations in the TGFB1 gene. In these cases, the cause of the condition is unknown.

Question: What causes Afibrinogenemia ?
Answer: What causes afibrinogenemia? Afibrinogenemia is caused by a severe lack of fibrinogen (coagulation factor I), a protein in the blood that is essential in the blood clotting (coagulation) process. This defect in fibrinogen synthesis can result from mutations in one or another of the fibrinogen genes alpha (FGA), beta (FGB) or gamma (FGG).

Question: What causes Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ?
Answer: What causes amyotrophic lateral sclerosis? In approximately 90-95% of cases the cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is unknown and is sporadic (occurring in individuals with no history of the condition in the family). The remaining 5-10% of cases are genetic (familial), often occurring in individuals with a family history of the condition. Mutations in any of several genes, including the C9orf72, SOD1, TARDBP, FUS, ANG, ALS2, SETX, and VAPB genes, can cause familial ALS and may contribute to the development of sporadic ALS. About 60% of individuals with familial ALS have an identifiable genetic mutation; the genetic cause in the remaining cases is unknown. The genes associated with ALS appear to play a role in how neurons function or are involved in regulating the production of various proteins. Over the years, various types of environmental exposures have been proposed as possible contributors to the cause of ALS, including mercury, manganese, products used in farming (fertilizers, insecticides, herbicides), and physical and dietary factors. Exposures have been suggested as a possible explanation for the increased incidence of ALS in Gulf War veterans. Further investigation is ongoing.

Question: What causes Inclusion body myopathy 2 ?
Answer: What causes inclusion body myopathy 2? Inclusion body myopathy 2 is caused by mutations in the GNE gene. The GNE gene provides instructions for making an enzyme responsible for making sialic acid, a simple sugar that attaches to the ends of more complex molecules on the surface of cells. People with inclusion body myopathy 2 have lower levels of sialic acid on the surface of certain proteins that are important for muscle function. This shortage of sialic acid leads to the progressive muscle wasting and disability seen in patients with inclusion body myopathy 2. Researchers are currently working towards a better understanding of how this shortage of sialic acid leads to the progressive muscle weakness in people with this condition.

Question: What causes Pars planitis ?
Answer: What causes pars planitis? The exact underlying cause of pars planitis is unknown. Scientists suspect that it is an autoimmune condition in which the body's immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissues (certain parts of the eyes, in this case). This is further supported by the fact that pars planitis is sometimes associated with other autoimmune conditions such as multiple sclerosis and sarcoidosis. Although most cases occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition, pars planitis can rarely affect more than one family member. In these cases, there may be a genetic component; however, a disease-causing gene and specific inheritance pattern have not been identified.

Question: What causes Adult-onset vitelliform macular dystrophy ?
Answer: What causes adult-onset vitelliform dystrophy? Historically, adult-onset vitelliform macular dystrophy (AVMD) was defined as a genetic disorder; however, recent studies have concluded that only a minority of cases have an identified genetic cause, suggesting that there might be other underlying causes of environmental origin, genetic origin, or a mix of genetics and environment (multifactorial).  More studies are needed to better define other underlying causes that might be present, whether of genetic or environmental origin.  Currently known genetic causes include mutations in the PRPH2, BEST1, IMPG1, and IMPG2 genes. It is additionally suspected that AVMD might be associated with a single-nucleotide polymorphism (variant DNA sequence) in the HTRA1 gene. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the HTRA1 gene are additionally associated with age-related macular degeneration.

Question: What causes HELLP syndrome ?
Answer: What causes HELLP syndrome? Doctors are still unclear on what exactly causes HELLP syndrome. Although it is more common in women who have preeclampsia or pregnancy induced hypertension (high blood pressure), there are still a number of women who get it without previously showing signs of preeclampsia. The following risk factors may increase a woman's risk of developing HELLP syndrome: Previous pregnancy with HELLP Syndrome (19-27% chance of recurrence in each pregnancy) Preeclampsia or pregnancy induced hypertension Women over the age of 25 Being caucasian Multiparous (given birth two or more times)

Question: What causes Schwartz Jampel syndrome type 1 ?
Answer: What causes Schwartz Jampel syndrome type 1? Schwartz Jampel syndrome type 1 (SJS1) is caused by mutations in the HSPG2 gene. The HSPG2 gene codes for the protein perlecan, which is found in muscle and cartilage. Although the role of the perlecan protein is not fully understood, it is thought to play an essential role in many biological activities such as cell signaling and cellular structure. In SJS1, it is suspected that a disturbance in perlecan function leads to a deficiency of acetylcholinesterase, an enzyme involved in breaking down acetylcholine, a neurotransmitter that sends messages between nerves, leading to muscle contraction. If acetylcholine is not broken down, it may lead to an prolonged muscle contraction or stiffening of the muscles (myotonia).

Question: What causes Pachyonychia congenita ?
Answer: What causes pachyonychia congenita? Pachyonychia congenita (PC) is caused by changes (mutations) in one of five genes: KRT6A, KRT6B, KRT6C, KRT16, and KRT17. These genes provide instructions for making a protein called keratin, which is found in the skin, hair, and nails. Mutations in any of these genes alter the structure of keratin proteins which interferes with their ability to provide strength and resilience to various parts of the body. This leads to the many signs and symptoms associated with pachyonychia congenita. PC is divided into 5 types based on the specific keratin gene involved: PC-K6a, PC-K6b, PC-K6c, PC-K16, and PC-K17.

Question: What causes Lipedema ?
Answer: What causes lipedema? The cause of lipedema is unknown. Hormones appear to play a role, especially considering that the condition occurs almost entirely in females and often develops after puberty or other periods of hormone change (e.g., pregnancy, menopause). Although people who are obese may be overrepresented among those with lipedema, persons of normal weight are also commonly affected. As a result, obesity alone is unlikely to be a major determinant of this syndrome. Many people with lipedema have a family history of similarly enlarged legs. At this time the role of genetics in the causation of lipedema is unknown.

Question: What causes Factor V Leiden thrombophilia ?
Answer: What causes factor V Leiden thrombophilia? Factor V Leiden thrombophilia is caused by a specific mutation in the Factor V gene. Factor V plays a critical role in the formation of blood clots in response to injury.  Genes are our bodys instructions for making proteins. The factor V gene instructs the body how to make a protein called coagulation factor V. Coagulation factor V is involved in a series of chemical reactions that hold blood clots together. A molecule called activated protein C (APC) prevents blood clots from growing too large by inactivating factor V.

Question: What causes Ovarian sex cord tumor with annular tubules ?
Answer: What causes an ovarian sex cord tumor with annular tubules? Approximately one third of ovarian sex cord tumors with annual tubules (SCTATs) develop because of an underlying genetic condition called Peutz Jeghers syndrome (PJS), which is caused by a mutation in the STK11 gene.  In these genetic cases, many small SCTATs develop in both ovaries and are almost always benign.  The remaining two thirds of ovarian SCTATs are not related to a genetic condition and develop as a single tumor in one ovary; up to 25% of SCTATs in this group may be malignant.  Ovarian SCTATs not related to PJS have no known cause and are believed to occur by chance.

Question: What causes Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2F ?
Answer: What causes Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2F? Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2F (CMT2F) is caused by mutations in the HSPB1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein (heat shock protein beta-1) which helps protect cells under adverse conditions. Heat shock proteins appear to be involved in activities such as cell movement, stabilizing the cell's framework, folding and stabilizing new proteins, repairing damaged proteins, and muscle contraction. Heat shock protein beta-1 is particularly abundant in nerve and muscle cells. In nerve cells, it helps to organize a network of threads that maintain the diameter of axons (neurofilaments), which are needed to transmit nerve impulses efficiently. It is unclear exactly how HSPB1 mutations lead to the axon abnormalities characteristic of CMT2F. Researchers suggest that mutations lead to an altered protein which clusters together and interferes with nerve cell function. Another possibility is that the altered protein disrupts the assembly of neurofilaments, which in turn may impair the transmission of nerve impulses.

Question: What causes Liddle syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Liddle syndrome? Liddle syndrome is caused by mutations (changes) in either of two genes: SCNN1B and SCNN1G . The SCNN1B gene provides instructions for making one piece (the beta subunit) of protein complexes called epithelial sodium channels (ENaCs). The SCNN1G gene provides instructions for making a different piece (the gamma subunit) of ENaCs. These channels are found at the surface of certain cells called epithelial cells in many tissues of the body, including the kidneys, lungs, and sweat glands. The ENaC channel transports sodium into cells. Mutations in the SCNN1B and SCNN1G genes associated with Liddle syndrome affect an important region of the protein involved in signaling for its breakdown (degradation). As a result of the mutations, the protein is not tagged for degradation, and more ENaC channels remain at the cell's surface. The increase in channels at the cell surface abnormally increases the reabsorption of sodium, which leads to hypertension. Removal of potassium from the blood is linked with reabsorption of sodium into the blood, so excess sodium reabsorption leads to hypokalemia.

Question: What causes Congenital diaphragmatic hernia ?
Answer: What causes congenital diaphragmatic hernia? Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) can occur as an isolated finding, as part of a genetic syndrome or chromosome abnormality, or as part of a complex but nonsyndromic set of findings. Currently, about 15%-20% of individuals with CDH have an identifiable cause for their diaphragm defect. These individuals are classified as having syndromic CDH either resulting from a recognized chromosome abnormality or as a single gene disorder. In the remaining 80%-85% of individuals with CDH, the cause is not known. Potential causes in these individuals may include: a currently undetectable chromosomal microdeletion (tiny loss of genetic material) or microduplication (an extra copy of genetic material) a mutation in a major gene important for diaphragm development combined effects of multiple minor genetic mutations or variants (polygenic inheritance) effects of gene-environment interactions (multifactorial inheritance) effects of non-genetic factors (e.g. epigenetic or teratogenic) GeneReviews has more detailed information about causes of CDH; this information can be viewed by clicking here.

Question: What causes Pilocytic astrocytoma ?
Answer: What causes pilocytic astrocytoma? The exact underlying cause of pilocytic astrocytomas is currently unknown. Although most are thought to be sporadic (occurring by chance in an affected individual), they are known to be associated with certain genetic disorders including neurofibromatosis type I (NF1), Li-Fraumeni syndrome, and tuberous sclerosis.

Question: What causes Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 ?
Answer: What causes multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1? Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN1) is caused by mutations in the MEN1 gene. MEN1 is a tumor suppressor gene which means that it encodes a protein that helps keep cells from growing and dividing too rapidly or in an uncontrolled way. Changes (mutations) in MEN1 result in a defective protein that is unable to carry out its normal role. This leads to the development of the many different types of tumors found in MEN1.

Question: What causes Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, progeroid type ?
Answer: What causes Ehlers-Danlos syndrome progeroid type? Ehlers-Danlos syndrome progeroid type is caused by changes (mutations) in both of an individual's copies of the B4GALT7 gene, which is located on chromosome 5. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme that is involved in the production of collagen (the main protein in connective tissue). When not enough enzyme is made by the B4GALT7 genes, collagen is not formed correctly in connective tissue. The symptoms of the disorder are caused by weak connective tissue. Researchers are still studying exactly how mutations in the B4GALT7 gene cause the signs and symptoms of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome progeroid type.

Question: What causes Pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta ?
Answer: What causes pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta? The exact underlying cause of pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta (PLEVA) is unknown. Some scientists suspect that it may occur due to an exaggerated immune response or hypersensitivity to an infection. Some of the infections that have been associated with PLEVA include: Toxoplasma gondii    Epstein-Barr virus HIV Cytomegalovirus Parvovirus (fifth disease) Staphylococcus aureus Group A beta-haemolytic streptococci Others scientists think the condition may be a benign lymphoproliferative disorder. These conditions are characterized by an overproduction of certain white blood cells (lymphocytes) which can result in tissue and organ damage.

Question: What causes Konigsmark Knox Hussels syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Konigsmark Knox Hussels syndrome? Konigsmark Knox Hussels syndrome is caused by a particular mutation in the OPA1 gene. In most cases, this condition is caused by a mutation that replaces the amino acid arginine with the amino acid histidine at position 445 in the OPA1 protein. This is written as Arg445His or R445H. It is unclear why the R445H mutation causes both hearing and vision loss in affected individuals.

Question: What causes Prune belly syndrome ?
Answer: What causes prune belly syndrome? The underlying cause of prune belly syndrome is unknown. The condition may occur if there is a blockage preventing the flow of urine through the urinary tract. The blockage can cause the urine to flow back into the bladder, enlarging it.

Question: What causes Arts syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Arts syndrome? Arts syndrome is caused by mutations in the PRPS1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate synthetase 1, or PRPP synthetase 1. This enzyme is involved in producing purines and pyrimidines, the building blocks of DNA, RNA, and molecules such as ATP and GTP that serve as energy sources in the cell. The PRPS1 mutations that cause Arts syndrome replace one protein building block (amino acid) with another amino acid in the PRPP synthetase 1 enzyme. The resulting enzyme is likely unstable, compromising its ability to perform its normal function. The disruption of purine and pyrimidine production may impair energy storage and transport in cells. Impairment of these processes may have a particularly severe effect on tissues that require a large amount of energy, such as the nervous system and the immune system, resulting in the neurological problems and immune dysfunction characteristic of Arts syndrome.

Question: What causes Fibrolamellar carcinoma ?
Answer: What causes fibrolamellar carcinoma? The exact underlying cause of fibrolamellar carcinoma (FLC) is poorly understood. Other forms of liver cancer are often associated with liver cirrhosis (scarring of the liver) which may be caused by alcohol abuse; autoimmune diseases of the liver; Hepatitis B or C viral infections; chronic inflammation of the liver; and/or hemochromatosis. However, FLC typically occurs in the absence of underlying liver inflammation or scarring; thus, specific risk factors for this condition remain unidentified. Recent research suggests that a deletion on chromosome 19 may play a key role in the formation of FLC. This deletion is called a "somatic mutation" since it is only present in the cells of the liver. Somatic mutations accumulate during a person's lifetime and are not inherited or passed on to future generations.

Question: What causes Pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy ?
Answer: What causes pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy? Mutations in the ALDH7A1 gene cause pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy. This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. The ALDH7A1 gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called -aminoadipic semialdehyde (-AASA) dehydrogenase, also known as antiquitin. This enzyme is involved in the breakdown of the protein building block (amino acid) lysine in the brain. When antiquitin is deficient, a molecule that interferes with vitamin B6 function builds up in various tissues. Pyridoxine plays a role in many processes in the body, such as the breakdown of amino acids and the productions of chemicals that transmit signals in the brain (neurotransmitters). It is unclear how a lack of pyridoxine causes the seizures that are characteristic of this condition. Some individuals with pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy do not have identified mutations in the ALDH7A1 gene. In these cases, the cause of the condition is unknown.

Question: What causes Silicosis ?
Answer: What causes silicosis? Silicosis is caused by breathing in tiny bits of silica dust. When people breathe silica dust, they inhale tiny particles of silica that has crystallized. This silica dust can cause fluid buildup and scar tissue in the lungs that cuts down the ability to breathe.

Question: What causes Muscle eye brain disease ?
Answer: What causes muscle eye brain disease? Muscle eye brain disease is caused by mutations in the POMGNT1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that is involved in adding sugar molecules to a protein called alpha dystroglycan. Alpha dystroglycan is important for stabilizing the muscle cell during contraction and relaxation. This protein is also found in the brain and spinal cord (central nervous system), eye, and other parts of the body. All of the reported mutations in the POMGNT1 gene result in a complete loss of function of the POMGNT1 protein. The lack of functional POMGNT1 protein disrupts production of alpha dystroglycan.

Question: What causes Microhydranencephaly ?
Answer: What causes microhydranencephaly? In many cases, the exact, underlying cause of microhydranencephaly is unknown. There are reports of families in which the condition is caused by changes (mutations) in the NDE1 gene. In these rare cases, more than one family member (often a pair of siblings) had the condition.

Question: What causes Schwannomatosis ?
Answer: What causes schwannomatosis? Some cases of schwannomatosis are caused by changes (mutations) in the SMARCB1 or LZTR1 genes. SMARCB1 and LZTR1 are tumor suppressor genes, which means that they encode a protein that stops cells from growing and dividing too rapidly or in an uncontrolled way. Mutations in these genes result in abnormal proteins that are unable to carry out their normal roles. This contributes to the development of the many different types of tumors found in schwannomatosis. When schwannomatosis is caused by a mutation in SMARCB1 or LZTR1, the affected person is typically born with one mutated copy of the gene in each cell and is, therefore, genetically predisposed to develop the tumors associated with the condition. For a tumor to form, two copies of the gene must be altered. The mutation in the second copy of the gene is considered a somatic mutation because it occurs during a person's lifetime and is not inherited. In affected people without a mutation in SMARCB1 or LZTR1, the underlying cause of the condition is unknown.

Question: What causes Catamenial pneumothorax ?
Answer: What causes catamenial pneumothorax? The exact cause is not known. However, spontaneous collapse of the lung (pneumothorax) occurs in 72% to 73% of cases of thoracic endometriosis. Thoracic endometriosis is a condition in which endometrial tissue is present in the chest (thoracic) cavity. It is more often seen in women who are about 34 years old. Thoracic endometriosis can be found in most cases of catamenial pneumothorax. Pneumothorax associated with endometriosis may also occur without being related with menstruation (non-catamenial pneumothorax) even in cases with no symptoms or without diagnosis of pelvic endometriosis.

Question: What causes Partington syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Partington syndrome? Partington syndrome is caused by changes (mutations) in the ARX gene, which encodes a protein that regulates the activity of other genes. This protein is particularly important in the developing brain where it plays many roles (i.e. assisting with the movement and communication of neurons). Specific changes in the ARX gene impair the function of the protein, which may disrupt normal neuronal migration. This can lead to the many signs and symptoms associated with Partington syndrome.

Question: What causes Aplasia cutis congenita ?
Answer: What causes aplasia cutis congenita? There is no one cause for all cases of aplasia cutis congenita. The condition is thought to be multifactorial, which means that several factors likely interact to cause the condition. Factors that may contribute include genetic factors; teratogens (exposures during pregnancy that can harm a developing fetus) such as methimazole, carbimazole, misoprostol, and valproic acid; compromised vasculature to the skin; and trauma. Some cases may represent an incomplete or unusual form of a neural tube defect. Familial cases of aplasia cutis congenita have been reported. Cases that appear to be genetic may be inherited in an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive manner.

Question: What causes Systemic scleroderma ?
Answer: What causes systemic scleroderma? The exact, underlying cause of systemic sclerosis is unknown. The cause appears to involve some injury to the cells that line blood vessels, resulting in excessive activation of dermal connective tissue cells, called fibroblasts. Fibroblasts normally produce collagen and other proteins. Build-up of collagen in the skin and other organs causes the signs and symptoms of the condition. It is suspected that scleroderma may develop from a variety of factors, which may include: Abnormal immune or inflammatory activity Genetic susceptibility: while no specific genes are thought to cause scleroderma, certain genes (or combination of genes) may increase a person's risk to be affected. However, the condition is not passed directly from parents to children. Environmental triggers: suspected triggers may include infections; injury; drugs (e.g. vitamin K, cocaine, penicillamine, appetite suppressants and some chemotherapeutic agents); and chemicals (e.g. silica, organic solvents, pesticides, aliphatic hydrocarbons and epoxy resin). Hormones: because women develop scleroderma more often than men, researchers suspect that hormones may play a role. However, the role of female hormones has not been proven. Widespread scleroderma can also occur in association with other autoimmune diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus and polymyositis.

Question: What causes Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, vascular type ?
Answer: What causes Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, vascular type? Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS), vascular type is caused by changes (mutations) in the COL3A1 gene. The COL3A1 gene provides instructions for making a component of type III collagen. Collagen is a protein that provides structure and strength to connective tissues throughout the body. Type III collagen, specifically, is found in tissues such as the skin, lungs, intestinal walls, and the walls of blood vessels. Mutations in the COL3A1 gene lead to defects in type III collagen molecules and/or reduced amounts of functional type III collagen. This causes the many signs and symptoms associated with EDS, vascular type.

Question: What causes Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy ?
Answer: What causes juvenile myoclonic epilepsy? The exact cause of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy remains unknown. It is not associated with conditions such as head trauma, brain tumor, or encephalitis. Several families have specific mutations in various genes and a complex mode of inheritance. In individuals with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy, symptoms can be precipitated by:  Sleep deprivation Psychological stress Alcohol and drug use Noncompliance of medication Photic stimulation Menses Time of day - Usually mornings

Question: What causes Tularemia ?
Answer: What causes tularemia? Tularemia is caused by the bacterium Francisella tularensis found in animals (especially rodents, rabbits, and hares). Humans can get the disease through: Direct contact, through a break in the skin, with an infected animal or its dead body The bite of an infected tick, horsefly, or mosquito Eating infected meat (rare) Breathing in the bacteria, F. tularensis Tularemia is not known to be spread from person to person. People who have tularemia do not need to be isolated.

Question: What causes Chiari malformation type 1 ?
Answer: What causes Chiari malformation type 1? Primary or congenital Chiari malformations are caused by structural defects in the brain and spinal cord that occur during fetal development. The underlying cause of the structural defects are not completely understood, but may involve genetic mutations or lack of proper vitamins or nutrients in the maternal diet. Less frequently, Chiari malformation type 1 is acquired after birth. Causes of acquired Chiari malformation type 1 involve the excessive draining of spinal fluid from the lumbar or thoracic areas of the spine as a result of injury, exposure to harmful substances, or infection. Click here to view a diagram of the spine.

Question: What causes Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy ?
Answer: What causes oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy? Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is caused by mutations in the PABPN1 gene. The PABPN1 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is active (expressed) throughout the body. In cells, the PABPN1 protein plays an important role in processing molecules called messenger RNAs (mRNAs), which serve as genetic blueprints for making proteins. The protein acts to protect the mRNA from being broken down and allows it to move within the cell. Mutations in the PABPN1 gene that cause OPMD result in a PABPN1 protein that forms clumps within muscle cells, and hence they cannot be broken down. These clumps are thought to impair the normal function of muscle cells and eventually cause cells to die. The progressive loss of muscle cells most likely causes the muscle weakness seen in people with OPMD. It is not known why abnormal PABPN1 proteins seem to affect muscle cells in only certain parts of the body.

Question: What causes Proud syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Proud syndrome? Proud syndrome is caused by changes (mutations) in the ARX gene, which encodes a protein that regulates the activity of other genes. This protein is especially important during early embryonic development since it is thought to be involved in the formation of many different body structures such as the pancreas, testes, brain, and muscles used for movement (skeletal muscles). For example, the protein helps regulate the process by which cells mature to carry out specific functions (differentiation) within the pancreas, testes, and muscles. In the developing brain, it plays many different roles such as assisting with the movement of neurons to their final locations. Specific changes in the ARX gene impair the function of the protein, which may disrupt the normal development of many different parts of the body. This can lead to the many signs and symptoms associated with Proud syndrome.

Question: What causes Congenital anosmia ?
Answer: What causes congenital anosmia? Congenital anosmia may occur as an isolated abnormality or be associated with specific genetic disorders (such as Kallmann syndrome and congenital insensitivity to pain). Most cases of isolated congenital anosmia (not associated with additional symptoms) occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. In these people, the exact underlying cause of the condition is unknown. Most likely, there is more than one cause. Scientists suspect that the condition occurs due to abnormal development of the olfactory system (the sensory system used for sense of smell) prior to birth. This may include abnormalities of the nasal cavity, disruptions in the pathway that carries information from the nose to the brain, and/or malformations of the portion of the brain that processes sense of smell. Rarely, isolated congenital anosmia can affect more than one family member. This suggests that there may be a genetic component in some cases. One study found that some people affected by isolated congenital anosmia have changes (mutations) in PROKR2 or PROK2, two genes that have previously been reported in people with Kallmann syndrome (an inherited condition associated with congenital anosmia and other symptoms). To date, no other disease-causing genes have been identified.

Question: What causes Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency ?
Answer: What causes alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency? Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency (AATD) is caused by mutations in the SERPINA1 gene. This gene gives the body instructions to make a protein called alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT), which protects the body from an enzyme called neutrophil elastase. Neutrophil elastase helps the body fight infections, but it can also attack healthy tissues (especially the lungs) if not controlled by AAT. Mutations that cause AAT can cause a deficiency or absence of AAT, or a form of AAT that does not work well. This allows neutrophil elastase to destroy lung tissue, causing lung disease. In addition, abnormal AAT can build up in the liver and cause damage to the liver. The severity of AATD may also be worsened by environmental factors such as exposure to tobacco smoke, dust, and chemicals.

Question: What causes Chronic hiccups ?
Answer: What causes chronic hiccups? Although the exact underlying cause of chronic hiccups is often unknown, many factors can contribute to the development of hiccups. For example, common triggers for hiccups include hot or spicy foods and liquids; harmful fumes; surgery; and/or certain medications. Chronic hiccups can also be associated with a variety of health problems including: Pneumonia, pleurisy and other conditions that irritate the diaphragm Brain abnormalities (i.e. strokes, tumors, injuries, infections) Metabolic disorders Gastrointestinal (esophagus, stomach, small/large intestines) diseases Psychological problems such as hysteria, shock, fear, and personality disorders Liver abnormalities Kidney disorders For a comprehensive listings of factors that can cause chronic hiccups, please click here.

Question: What causes Split hand foot malformation ?
Answer: What causes split hand foot malformation? Split hand foot malformation may occur as an isolated feature or it may be associated with a genetic syndrome. Researchers believe that a large number of mutations can cause split hand foot malformation. A few of which have been identified: FBXW4 and TP63. Most commonly the conditions are passed through families in an autosomal dominant fashion with reduced penetrance. In autosomal dominant inheritance an affected parent would have a 1 in 2 or 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing the genetic defect to his/her offspring. In conditions with reduced penetrance a person who inherits the underlying genetic defect, may never develop the condition. More rarely other forms of inheritance have been reported (e.g., autosomal-recessive, X-linked, chromosome deletions, chromosome duplications).

Question: What causes Congenital contractural arachnodactyly ?
Answer: What causes congenital contractural arachnodactyly? Congenital contractural arachnodactyly is caused by mutations in the FBN2 gene. The FBN2 gene provides instructions for producing the fibrillin-2 protein. Fibrillin-2 binds to other proteins and molecules to form threadlike filaments called microfibrils. Microfibrils become part of the fibers that provide strength and flexibility to connective tissue. Additionally, microfibrils hold molecules called growth factors and release them at the appropriate time to control the growth and repair of tissues and organs throughout the body. A mutation in the FBN2 gene can reduce the amount and/or quality of fibrillin-2 that is available to form microfibrils. As a result, decreased microfibril formation weakens the elastic fibers and allows growth factors to be released inappropriately, causing tall stature, deformities of the fingers and toes, and other characteristic features of congenital contractural arachnodactyly.

Question: What causes Mantle cell lymphoma ?
Answer: What causes Mantle cell lymphoma? Most lymphomas are not inherited, but rather an acquired disease in which the DNAwithin the cells has been damaged. Damage to the DNA occurs by a combination of different factors. Many mantle cell lymphomas are found to be associated with a chromsosome translocation. Some causes of non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL) have been linked to viral infections including Ebstein-Barr virus, HIV, and human herpesvirus 6. It has also been found that immunodeficiencies and environmental factors like hair dyes and pesticides may lead to NHLs.

Question: What causes Basilar migraine ?
Answer: What causes a basilar migraine? The exact underlying cause of basilar migraines is not well understood. Basilar migraines, like all types of migraines, are likely complex disorders that are influenced by multiple genes in combination with lifestyle and environmental factors. Scientists also suspect that nerve abnormalities and/or altered blood flow to certain parts of the brain (brainstem and occipital lobes, specifically) may also play a role in the development of basilar migraines. The susceptibility to basilar migraines may rarely be caused by a change (mutation) in the ATP1A2 gene or CACNA1A gene. In these cases, episodes of basilar migraines may occur in more than one family member.

Question: What causes Currarino triad ?
Answer: What causes Currarino triad? Currarino triad is caused by mutations in the MNX1 gene in nearly all familial and 30% of sporadic cases. These mutations in the gene are called loss of function mutations because the gene can no longer produce working (functional) protein. Less frequently, a complex phenotype of Currarino triad can be caused by microdeletions of 7q containing MNX1 (the long arm of chromosome 7 is missing a small piece of DNA which includes MNX1 and other genes).

Question: What causes Tracheobronchomalacia ?
Answer: What causes tracheobronchomalacia? The underlying cause of tracheobronchomalacia (TBM) varies by subtype. Most cases of primary TBM (also called congenital TBM) are caused by genetic conditions that weaken the walls of the airway (specifically the trachea and bronchi). For example, TBM has been reported in people with mucopolysaccharidoses (such as Hunter syndrome and Hurler syndrome), Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, and a variety of chromosome abnormalities. Primary TBM can also be idiopathic (unknown cause) or associated with prematurity and certain birth defects (i.e. tracheoesophageal fistula). The secondary form (also called acquired TBM) is caused by the degeneration (break down) of cartilage that typically supports the airways. It is most commonly associated with: Certain medical procedures such as endotracheal intubation or tracheostomy Conditions that lead to chronic (persisting or progressing for a long period of time) inflammation such as relapsing polychondritis or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) Cancers, tumors, or cysts that cause prolonged compression of the airway

Question: What causes Amelogenesis imperfecta ?
Answer: What causes amelogenesis imperfecta? Amelogenesis imperfecta is caused by mutations in the AMELX, ENAM, and MMP20 genes. These genes provide instructions for making proteins that are essential for normal tooth development. These proteins are involved in the formation of enamel, which is the hard, calcium-rich material that forms the protective outer layer of each tooth. Mutations in any of these genes alter the structure of these proteins or prevent the genes from making any protein at all. As a result, tooth enamel is abnormally thin or soft and may have a yellow or brown color. Teeth with defective enamel are weak and easily damaged. In some cases, the genetic cause of amelogenesis imperfecta can not been identified. Researchers are working to find mutations in other genes that are responsible for this disorder. Click on each gene name to learn more about the role it plays in the development of tooth enamel.

Question: What causes Von Hippel-Lindau disease ?
Answer: What causes Von Hippel-Lindau disease? Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease is caused by a mutation in the VHL gene. This gene is a tumor suppressor gene, which helps to control cell growth. Mutations in the VHL gene lead to a lack of regulation of cell growth and survival, allowing cells to grow and divide uncontrollably, forming the tumors that are associated with VHL disease.

Question: What causes Disseminated peritoneal leiomyomatosis ?
Answer: What causes disseminated peritoneal leiomyomatosis (DPL)? The cause of disseminated peritoneal leiomyomatosis (DPL) is unknown, but medical researchers believe it is influenced by both hormonal and genetic factors. Not all cases are related to hormone levels, as some cases have occurred in men and in post-menopausal women not receiving hormone replacement therapy. DPL is often associated with uterine leiomyomas but the connection is unclear. Most cases occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition; however, more than one family member can be affected. Although this suggests that genetic factors may play a role in the development of DPL in some families, researchers have not identified any specific gene changes known to cause the condition.The cause of the condition is considered multifactorial .

Question: What causes Meningoencephalocele ?
Answer: What causes meningoencephalocele? The exact cause of meningoencephalocele is not known. Some studies have suggested that environmental factors could play a role in causing the condition. Exposure during pregnancy to aflatoxins, toxins produced by a mold that grows in nuts, seeds, and legumes, has been proposed to be a possible cause in some cases. However, its potential role in causing the condition is unclear. It has also been suggested that folate deficiency during pregnancy might play a role, because the condition is so closely related to spina bifida, which can be caused by folate deficiency. However, there have been no studies regarding the relationship of maternal folate deficiency and meningoencephalocele. Further studies are needed to to clarify what may cause the condition.

Question: What causes Parsonage Turner syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Parsonage Turner syndrome? The exact cause of Parsonage Turner syndrome (PTS) is unknown. Researchers suspect that most cases are due to an autoimmune response following exposure to an illness or environmental factor. In many cases, no triggering event or underlying cause can be identified. Factors known to trigger PTS include: Infections (both viral and bacterial) Surgery Vaccinations Childbirth Certain medical procedures, such as a spinal tap or imaging studies that require administration of radiologic dye Strenuous exercise Certain medical conditions, including connective tissue disorders and autoimmune disorders Injury Some researchers believe that PTS is a multifactorial condition, which means that it is caused by both environmental and genetic factors. In this case, a person may have a genetic susceptibility to PTS due to one or more genes, but won't develop the condition unless they are exposed to certain environmental triggers (such as those listed above).

Question: What causes Tietze syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Tietze syndrome? The exact underlying cause of Tietze syndrome is currently unknown. Some researchers have speculated that small injuries to the anterior chest wall may contribute to the development of the condition.

Question: What causes Pityriasis rubra pilaris ?
Answer: What causes pityriasis rubra pilaris? In most cases, pityriasis rubra pilaris (PRP) occurs sporadically for unknown reasons. In a few families with the inherited form, familial PRP, the condition is caused by mutations in the CARD14 gene. This gene gives instructions for making a protein that turns on other proteins that regulate genes that control the body's immune responses and inflammatory reactions. It also protects cells from certain signals that would otherwise cause them to self-destruct. The CARD14 protein is particularly abundant in the skin. Mutations in the gene can cause a person to have an abnormal inflammatory response. Researchers are trying to find out how these mutations cause the specific features of familial PRP.

Question: What causes Norrie disease ?
Answer: What causes Norrie disease? Norrie disease is caused by a change (mutation) in the NDP gene, which is located on the X chromosome. It is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. The NDP gene provides instructions for making a protein called norrin, which affects the way cells and tissues develop. In particular, the norrin protein seems to play an important role in the development of retinal cells in the eye. It is also involved in creating a blood supply to tissues of the retina and the inner ear, and the development of other body systems. Mutations in the NDP gene can prevent the norrin protein from working correctly, resulting in the signs and symptoms of Norrie disease.

Question: What causes Schnitzler syndrome ?
Answer: What causes Schnitzler syndrome? The exact underlying cause of Schnitzler syndrome is currently unknown. People affected by this condition often have a blood abnormality called monoclonal gammopathy, a condition in which the body over-produces certain immunoglobulins (typically immunoglobulin M). Immunoglobulins are proteins that are made by certain white blood cells. They play a role in the immune response by helping destroy bacteria, viruses, and other substances that appear foreign and harmful. Some researchers believe that the abnormal accumulation of immunoglobulins in the skin and other parts of the body may play a role in the development of the signs and symptoms of Schnitzler syndrome. Other scientists speculate that alterations in cytokines may play a role in the development of Schnitzler syndrome. Cytokines are specialized proteins that play an important role in the immune response. They are secreted by certain immune system cells and play a vital role in controlling the growth and activity of other immune system cells. Abnormal findings involving a specific cytokine called interleukin-1 have been found in some people with Schnitzler syndrome.

Question: What causes MECP2 duplication syndrome ?
Answer: What causes MECP2 duplication syndrome? MECP2 duplication syndrome occurs when there is an extra copy (duplication) of the MECP2 gene in each cell. This is generally caused by a duplication of genetic material located on the long (q) arm of the X chromosome. The size of the duplication can vary; however, this does not appear to affect the severity of the condition. People with larger duplications have signs and symptoms that are similar to people with smaller duplications. The MECP2 gene encodes a protein that is important for normal brain functioning. Although it plays many roles, one of its most important functions is to regulate other genes in the brain by switching them on and off. A duplication of the MECP2 gene leads to the production of excess protein, which is unable to properly regulate the expression of other genes. This results in irregular brain activity, leading to the signs and symptoms of MECP2 duplication syndrome.

Question: What causes Mosaic trisomy 14 ?
Answer: What causes mosaic trisomy 14? Individuals with mosaic trisomy 14 have a duplication of chromosome 14 material in some of their cells, while other cells have a normal chromosomal makeup. The additional chromosomal material is responsible for the features that are characteristic of the condition. Most cases of mosaic trisomy 14 appear to result from random errors in the separation of chromosomes (nondisjunction) -- either during the division of the egg or sperm in one of the parents, or during cell division after fertilization. There have been some reports in which it may have occurred due to other phenomenon, such as uniparental disomy or the formation of an isochromosome. Uniparental disomy is when an affected individual inherits both copies of a chromosomal pair from one parent, rather than one copy from each parent. An isochromosome is an abnormal chromosome with identical arms on each side of the centromere. Unique has a leaflet on their Web site that contains additional descriptions and illustrations of how mosaic trisomy 14 may occur. Click here to view the leaflet.

Question: What causes Juvenile Huntington disease ?
Answer: What causes Juvenile Huntington disease (HD)? Mutations in the HTT gene cause Huntington disease. The HTT gene provides instructions for making a protein called huntingtin. Although the function of this protein is unknown, it appears to play an important role in nerve cells (neurons) in the brain. When the huntingtin protein is abnormally made, it is thought to lead to the death of neurons in certain areas of the brain, which causes the signs and symptoms of Juvenile HD. The HTT mutation that causes Huntington disease involves a DNA segment known as a CAG trinucleotide repeat. This segment is made up of a series of three DNA building blocks (cytosine, adenine, and guanine) that appear multiple times in a row. Normally, the CAG segment is repeated 10 to 35 times within the gene. In people with juvenile HD, the CAG segment is repeated more than 60 times.

Question: What causes Loin pain hematuria syndrome ?
Answer: What causes loin pain hematuria syndrome? The exact underlying cause of loin pain hematuria syndrome (LPHS) is currently unknown. However, scientists have proposed several theories. For example, some cases of LPHS may be due to abnormal glomerular basement membranes, which are the tissues in the kidney that filter blood. If these tissues are abnormal, red blood cells may be allowed to enter the urinary space, leading to both loin pain and hematuria (blood in the urine). Other factors that may lead to the signs and symptoms of LPHS include: Blood disorders, called coagulopathies, which impair the bloods ability to clot Spasms in the kidney's blood vessels which may restrict blood flow to certain tissues and lead to tissue death Up to 50% of people affected by LPHS also experience kidney stones. Some scientists, therefore, suspect that the formation of crystals and/or stones in the kidney may also contribute to the condition as they may block or injure the renal tubules (the long narrow tubes in the kidney that concentrate and transport urine).

