Question: are there complications from botulism?
Answer: Botulism can result in death due to respiratory failure. However, in the past 50 years the proportion of patients with botulism who die has fallen from about 50% to 3-5%. A patient with severe botulism may require a breathing machine as well as intensive medical and nursing care for several months, and some patients die from infections or other problems related to remaining paralyzed for weeks or months. Patients who survive an episode of botulism poisoning may have fatigue and shortness of breath for years and long-term therapy may be needed to aid recovery.

Question: What are the complications of Machado-Joseph Disease ?
Answer: Lyme disease is caused by a bacterial organism that is transmitted to humans via the bite of an infected tick. Most people with Lyme disease develop a characteristic skin rash around the area of the bite. The rash may feel hot to the touch, and vary in size, shape, and color, but it will often have a "bull's eye" appearance (a red ring with a clear center). However, there are those who will not develop the rash, which can make Lyme disease hard to diagnose because its symptoms and signs mimic those of many other diseases.
                
Anywhere from 7 to 14 days (or in some cases, 30 days) following an infected tick's bite, the first stage of Lyme disease may begin with flu-like symptoms such as fever, chills, swollen lymph nodes, headaches, fatigue, muscle aches, and joint pain.
                
Neurological complications most often occur in the second stage of Lyme disease, with numbness, pain, weakness, Bell's palsy (paralysis of the facial muscles), visual disturbances, and meningitis symptoms such as fever, stiff neck, and severe headache. Other problems, which may not appear until weeks, months, or years after a tick bite, include decreased concentration, irritability, memory and sleep disorders, and nerve damage in the arms and legs.

Question: What are the complications of Neurological Complications of AIDS ?
Answer: AIDS is primarily an immune system disorder caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), but it can also affect the nervous system. HIV does not appear to directly invade nerve cells but it jeopardizes their health and function, causing symptoms such as confusion, forgetfulness, behavioral changes, headaches, progressive weakness and loss of sensation in the arms and legs, cognitive motor impairment, or damage to the peripheral nerves. Other complications that can occur as a result of HIV infection or the drugs used to treat it include pain, seizures, shingles, spinal cord problems, lack of coordination, difficult or painful swallowing, anxiety disorder, depression, fever, vision loss, gait disorders, destruction of brain tissue, and coma. Other AIDS-related nervous system disorders may be caused by certain cancers or by illnesses that would not otherwise affect people with healthy immune systems.
                
Among the most common neurological complications are: AIDS dementia complex, causing symptoms such as encephalitis (inflammation of the brain), behavioral changes, and a gradual decline in cognitive function; central nervous system lymphomas, cancerous tumors that either begin in the brain or result from a cancer that has spread from another site in the body; cryptococcal meningitis; cytomegalovirus infections; herpes virus infections; neuropathy; neurosyphilis; progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML); and psychological and neuropsychiatric disorders.

Question: What are the complications of Anemia in Chronic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: Heart problems are a complication of anemia and may include
                
- an irregular heartbeat or an unusually fast heartbeat, especially when exercising.  - the harmful enlargement of muscles in the heart.  - heart failure, which does not mean the heart suddenly stops working. Instead, heart failure is a long-lasting condition in which the heart cant pump enough blood to meet the bodys needs.

Question: What are the complications of Lupus Nephritis ?
Answer: In many cases, treatment is effective in completely or partially controlling lupus nephritis, resulting in few, if any, further complications. However, even with treatment, 10 to 30 percent of people with lupus nephritis develop kidney failure, described as end-stage renal disease when treated with blood-filtering treatments called dialysis or a kidney transplant.3 Scientists cannot predict who will or will not respond to treatment. The most severe form of lupus nephritis is called diffuse proliferative nephritis. With this type of illness, the kidneys are inflamed, many white blood cells invade the kidneys, and kidney cells increase in number, which can cause such severe damage that scars form in the kidneys. Scars are difficult to treat, and kidney function often declines as more scars form. People with suspected lupus nephritis should get diagnosed and treated as early as possible to prevent such chronic, or long lasting, damage.
                
People with lupus nephritis are at a high risk for cancer, primarily B-cell lymphomaa type of cancer that begins in the cells of the immune system. They are also at a high risk for heart and blood vessel problems.

Question: What are the complications of Hemochromatosis ?
Answer: Without treatment, iron may build up in the organs and cause complications, including
                
- cirrhosis, or scarring of liver tissue  - diabetes  - irregular heart rhythms or weakening of the heart muscle  - arthritis  - erectile dysfunction
                
The complication most often associated with hemochromatosis is liver damage. Iron buildup in the liver causes cirrhosis, which increases the chance of developing liver cancer.
                
For some people, complications may be the first sign of hemochromatosis. However, not everyone with hemochromatosis will develop complications.

Question: What are the complications of Inguinal Hernia ?
Answer: Inguinal hernias can cause the following complications:
                
- Incarceration. An incarcerated hernia happens when part of the fat or small intestine from inside the abdomen becomes stuck in the groin or scrotum and cannot go back into the abdomen. A health care provider is unable to massage the hernia back into the abdomen.  - Strangulation. When an incarcerated hernia is not treated, the blood supply to the small intestine may become obstructed, causing strangulation of the small intestine. This lack of blood supply is an emergency situation and can cause the section of the intestine to die.
                

                
Seek Immediate Care   People who have symptoms of an incarcerated or a strangulated hernia should seek emergency medical help immediately. A strangulated hernia is a life-threatening condition. Symptoms of an incarcerated or a strangulated hernia include   - extreme tenderness or painful redness in the area of the bulge in the groin   - sudden pain that worsens quickly and does not go away   - the inability to have a bowel movement and pass gas   - nausea and vomiting   - fever

Question: What are the complications of Polycystic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: The complications of autosomal dominant PKD include the following:
                
- Pain. Cyst infection, other types of urinary tract infections (UTIs), bleeding into cysts, kidney stones, or stretching of the fibrous tissue around the kidney because of cyst growth can cause pain in the area of the kidneys.  - High blood pressure. High blood pressure is present in about half of the people with autosomal dominant PKD and normal kidney function between the ages of 20 and 35.4 Almost 100 percent of people with kidney failure and autosomal dominant PKD have high blood pressure.1 High blood pressuregreater than 140/90 mm Hgincreases the likelihood of heart disease and stroke, as well as adding to the damage already done to the kidneys by the cysts.  - Kidney failure. Kidney failure means the kidneys no longer work well enough to maintain health. A person with kidney failure may have the following symptoms:      - little or no urination    - edemaswelling, usually in the legs, feet, or ankles and less often in the hands or face    - drowsiness    - fatigue, or feeling tired    - generalized itching or numbness    - dry skin    - headaches    - weight loss    - appetite loss    - nausea    - vomiting    - sleep problems    - trouble concentrating    - darkened skin    - muscle cramps    - shortness of breath    - chest pain
                
Untreated kidney failure can lead to coma and death. More than half of people with autosomal dominant PKD progress to kidney failure by age 70.1
                
- UTIs. Kidney cysts block the flow of urine through the kidneys. Stagnant urine can set the stage for infection. Bacteria enter the urinary tract through the urethra and spread up to the kidneys. Sometimes, the kidney cysts become infected. UTIs may cause scarring in the kidneys.  - Kidney stones. About 20 percent of people with autosomal dominant PKD have kidney stones.1 Kidney stones can block the flow of urine and cause pain.  - Liver cysts. Liver cysts are the most common nonkidney complication of autosomal dominant PKD.1 Liver cysts generally cause no symptoms.  - Pancreatic cysts. PKD can also cause cysts in the pancreas. Pancreatic cysts rarely cause pancreatitisinflammation, or swelling, of the pancreas.  - Abnormal heart valves. Abnormal heart valves may occur in up to 25 percent of people with autosomal dominant PKD.1 Insufficient blood flow in the aortathe large artery that carries blood from the heartmay result from the abnormal heart valves.  - Diverticula. Diverticula are small pouches, or sacs, that push outward through weak spots in the colon wall. This complication is more common in people with PKD who have kidney failure.1  - Brain aneurysms. An aneurysm is a bulge in the wall of a blood vessel. Aneurysms in the brain might cause headaches that are severe or feel different from other headaches. Brain aneurysms can rupture, or break open, causing bleeding inside the skull. A ruptured aneurysm in the brain is a life-threatening condition and requires immediate medical attention.

Question: What are the complications of Polycystic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: Babies with the most severe cases of autosomal recessive PKD often die hours or days after birth because they cannot breathe well enough to sustain life. Their lungs do not develop as they should during the prenatal period. Pressure from enlarged kidneys also contributes to breathing problems.
                
Children born with autosomal recessive PKD often develop kidney failure before reaching adulthood.
                
Liver scarring occurs in all people with autosomal recessive PKD and is usually present at birth. However, liver problems tend to become more of a concern as people with autosomal recessive PKD grow older. Liver scarring can lead to progressive liver dysfunction and other problems.
                
Additional complications of autosomal recessive PKD include high blood pressure and UTIs.

Question: What are the complications of Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome ?
Answer: The complications of childhood nephrotic syndrome may include
                
- infection. When the kidneys are damaged, a child is more likely to develop infections because the body loses proteins that normally protect against infection. Health care providers will prescribe medications to treat infections. Children with childhood nephrotic syndrome should receive the pneumococcal vaccine and yearly flu shots to prevent those infections. Children should also receive age-appropriate vaccinations, although a health care provider may delay certain live vaccines while a child is taking certain medications.  - blood clots. Blood clots can block the flow of blood and oxygen through a blood vessel anywhere in the body. A child is more likely to develop clots when he or she loses proteins through the urine. The health care provider will treat blood clots with blood-thinning medications.  - high blood cholesterol. When albumin leaks into the urine, the albumin levels in the blood drop. The liver makes more albumin to make up for the low levels in the blood. At the same time, the liver makes more cholesterol. Sometimes children may need treatment with medications to lower blood cholesterol levels.

Question: What are the complications of Acquired Cystic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: People with acquired cystic kidney disease may develop the following complications:
                
- an infected cyst, which can cause fever and back pain.  - blood in the urine, which can signal that a cyst in the kidney is bleeding.  - tumors in the kidneys. People with acquired cystic kidney disease are more likely than people in the general population to have cancerous kidney tumors. However, the chance of cancer spreading is lower in people with acquired cystic kidney disease than that of other kidney cancers not associated with acquired cystic kidney disease, and the long-term outlook is better.1

Question: What are the complications of Prostate Enlargement: Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia ?
Answer: The complications of benign prostatic hyperplasia may include
                
- acute urinary retention  - chronic, or long lasting, urinary retention  - blood in the urine  - urinary tract infections (UTIs)  - bladder damage  - kidney damage  - bladder stones
                
Most men with benign prostatic hyperplasia do not develop these complications. However, kidney damage in particular can be a serious health threat when it occurs.
                

                
When to Seek Medical Care   A person may have urinary symptoms unrelated to benign prostatic hyperplasia that are caused by bladder problems, UTIs, or prostatitisinflammation of the prostate. Symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia also can signal more serious conditions, including prostate cancer.   Men with symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia should see a health care provider.   Men with the following symptoms should seek immediate medical care:   - complete inability to urinate   - painful, frequent, and urgent need to urinate, with fever and chills   - blood in the urine   - great discomfort or pain in the lower abdomen and urinary tract

Question: What are the complications of Primary Biliary Cirrhosis ?
Answer: Most complications of primary biliary cirrhosis are related to cirrhosis and start after primary biliary cirrhosis progresses to cirrhosis. In some cases, portal hypertension and esophageal varices may develop before cirrhosis.
                
Portal hypertension. The portal vein carries blood from the stomach, intestines, spleen, gallbladder, and pancreas to the liver. In cirrhosis, scar tissue partially blocks the normal flow of blood, which increases the pressure in the portal vein. This condition is called portal hypertension. Portal hypertension is a common complication of cirrhosis. This condition may lead to other complications, such as
                
- edemaswelling due to a buildup of fluidin the feet, ankles, or legs, and ascitesa buildup of fluid in the abdomen  - enlarged blood vessels, called varices, in the esophagus, stomach, or both  - an enlarged spleen, called splenomegaly  - mental confusion due to a buildup of toxins that are ordinarily removed by the liver, a condition called hepatic encephalopathy
                
Edema and ascites. Liver failure causes fluid buildup that results in edema and ascites. Ascites can lead to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, a serious infection that requires immediate medical attention.
                
Varices. Portal hypertension may cause enlarged blood vessels in the esophagus, stomach, or both. These enlarged blood vessels, called esophageal or gastric varices, cause the vessel walls to become thin and blood pressure to increase, making the blood vessels more likely to burst. If they burst, serious bleeding can occur in the esophagus or upper stomach, requiring immediate medical attention.
                
Splenomegaly. Portal hypertension may cause the spleen to enlarge and retain white blood cells and platelets, reducing the numbers of these cells and platelets in the blood. A low platelet count may be the first evidence that a person has developed cirrhosis.
                
Hepatic encephalopathy. A failing liver cannot remove toxins from the blood, so they eventually accumulate in the brain. The buildup of toxins in the brain is called hepatic encephalopathy. This condition can decrease mental function and cause stupor and even coma. Stupor is an unconscious, sleeplike state from which a person can only be aroused briefly by a strong stimulus, such as a sharp pain. Coma is an unconscious, sleeplike state from which a person cannot be aroused. Signs of decreased mental function include
                
- confusion  - personality changes  - memory loss  - trouble concentrating  - a change in sleep habits
                
Metabolic bone diseases. Some people with cirrhosis develop a metabolic bone disease, which is a disorder of bone strength usually caused by abnormalities of vitamin D, bone mass, bone structure, or minerals, such as calcium and phosphorous. Osteopenia is a condition in which the bones become less dense, making them weaker. When bone loss becomes more severe, the condition is referred to as osteoporosis. People with these conditions are more likely to develop bone fractures.
                
Gallstones and bile duct stones. If cirrhosis prevents bile from flowing freely to and from the gallbladder, the bile hardens into gallstones. Symptoms of gallstones include abdominal pain and recurrent bacterial cholangitisirritated or infected bile ducts. Stones may also form in and block the bile ducts, causing pain, jaundice, and bacterial cholangitis.
                
Steatorrhea. Steatorrhea is a condition in which the body cannot absorb fat, causing a buildup of fat in the stool and loose, greasy, and foul-smelling bowel movements. Steatorrhea may be caused by impairment of bile delivery to the small intestine or by the pancreas not producing enough digestive enzymes.
                
Liver cancer. Liver cancer is common in people with cirrhosis. Liver cancer has a high mortality rate. Current treatments are limited and only fully successful if a health care provider detects the cancer early, before the tumor is too large. For this reason, health care providers should check people with cirrhosis for signs of liver cancer every 6 to 12 months. Health care providers use blood tests, ultrasound, or both to check for signs of liver cancer.

Question: What are the complications of Whipple Disease ?
Answer: People with Whipple disease may have complications caused by malnutrition, which is due to damaged villi in the small intestine. As a result of delayed diagnosis or treatment, people may experience the following complications in other areas of the body:
                
- long-lasting nutritional deficiencies  - heart and heart valve damage  - brain damage
                
A person with Whipple disease may experience a relapsea return of symptoms. Relapse can happen years after treatment and requires repeat treatments.

Question: What are the complications of Wilson Disease ?
Answer: People who have Wilson disease that is not treated or diagnosed early can have serious complications, such as
                
- cirrhosisscarring of the liver  - kidney damageas liver function decreases, the kidneys may be damaged  - persistent nervous system problems when nervous system symptoms do not resolve  - liver cancerhepatocellular carcinoma is a type of liver cancer that can occur in people with cirrhosis  - liver failurea condition in which the liver stops working properly  - death, if left untreated

Question: What are the complications of Urine Blockage in Newborns ?
Answer: When a defect in the urinary tract blocks the flow of urine, the urine backs up and causes the ureters to swell, called hydroureter, and hydronephrosis.
                
Hydronephrosis is the most common problem found during prenatal ultrasound of a baby in the womb. The swelling may be easy to see or barely detectable. The results of hydronephrosis may be mild or severe, yet the long-term outcome for the childs health cannot always be predicted by the severity of swelling. Urine blockage may damage the developing kidneys and reduce their ability to filter. In the most severe cases of urine blockage, where little or no urine leaves the babys bladder, the amount of amniotic fluid is reduced to the point that the babys lung development is threatened.
                
After birth, urine blockage may raise a childs risk of developing a UTI. Recurring UTIs can lead to more permanent kidney damage.

Question: What are the complications of Abdominal Adhesions ?
Answer: Abdominal adhesions can cause intestinal obstruction and female infertilitythe inability to become pregnant after a year of trying.
                
Abdominal adhesions can lead to female infertility by preventing fertilized eggs from reaching the uterus, where fetal development takes place. Women with abdominal adhesions in or around their fallopian tubes have an increased chance of ectopic pregnancya fertilized egg growing outside the uterus. Abdominal adhesions inside the uterus may result in repeated miscarriagesa pregnancy failure before 20 weeks.
                

                
Seek Help for Emergency Symptoms   A complete intestinal obstruction is life threatening and requires immediate medical attention and often surgery. Symptoms of an intestinal obstruction include   - severe abdominal pain or cramping   - nausea   - vomiting   - bloating    - loud bowel sounds   - abdominal swelling   - the inability to have a bowel movement or pass gas   - constipationa condition in which a person has fewer than three bowel movements a week; the bowel movements may be painful     A person with these symptoms should seek medical attention immediately.

Question: What are the complications of Renal Artery Stenosis ?
Answer: People with RAS are at increased risk for complications resulting from loss of kidney function or atherosclerosis occurring in other blood vessels, such as
                
- chronic kidney disease (CKD)reduced kidney function over a period of time  - coronary artery diseasenarrowing and hardening of arteries that supply blood to the heart  - strokebrain damage caused by lack of blood flow to the brain  - peripheral vascular diseaseblockage of blood vessels that restricts flow of blood from the heart to other parts of the body, particularly the legs
                
RAS can lead to kidney failure, described as end-stage renal disease when treated with blood-filtering treatments called dialysis or a kidney transplant, though this is uncommon in people who receive ongoing treatment for RAS.

Question: What are the complications of Crohn's Disease ?
Answer: Complications of Crohn's disease can include
                
- bowel obstruction. Crohn's disease can thicken the wall of the intestine. Over time, the thickened areas of the intestine can narrow, which can block the intestine. A partial or complete obstruction, also called a bowel blockage, can block the movement of food or stool through the intestines. A complete bowel obstruction is life threatening and requires immediate medical attention and often surgery.  - fistulasabnormal passages, or tunnels, between two organs, or between an organ and the outside of the body. How a health care provider treats fistulas depends on their type and severity. For some people, fistulas heal with medication and diet changes, while other people will need to have surgery.  - anal fissuressmall tears in the anus that may cause itching, pain, or bleeding. Most anal fissures heal with medical treatment, including ointments, warm baths, and dietary changes.  - ulcers. Inflammation anywhere along the GI tract can lead to ulcers or open sores in a person's mouth, intestines, anus, and perineumthe area between the anus and the sex organs. In most cases, the treatment a health care provider prescribes for Crohn's disease will also treat the ulcers.  - malnutritiona condition that develops when the body does not get the right amount of vitamins, minerals, and nutrients it needs to maintain healthy tissues and organ function. Some people may need IV fluids or feeding tubes to replace lost nutrients and fluids.  - inflammation in other areas of the body. The immune system can trigger inflammation in the      - joints    - eyes    - skin
                
Health care providers can treat inflammation by adjusting medications or prescribing new medications.
                

                
Crohn's Disease and Colon Cancer   People with Crohn's disease in the large intestine may be more likely to develop colon cancer. People who receive ongoing treatment and remain in remission may reduce their chances of developing colon cancer.   People with Crohn's disease should talk with their health care provider about how often they should get screened for colon cancer. Screening can include colonoscopy with biopsies. Such screening does not reduce a person's chances of developing colon cancer. Instead, screening can help diagnose cancer early and improve chances for recovery.

Question: What are the complications of Foodborne Illnesses ?
Answer: Foodborne illnesses may lead to dehydration, hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), and other complications. Acute foodborne illnesses may also lead to chronicor long lastinghealth problems.
                
Dehydration
                
When someone does not drink enough fluids to replace those that are lost through vomiting and diarrhea, dehydration can result. When dehydrated, the body lacks enough fluid and electrolytesminerals in salts, including sodium, potassium, and chlorideto function properly. Infants, children, older adults, and people with weak immune systems have the greatest risk of becoming dehydrated.
                
Signs of dehydration are
                
- excessive thirst  - infrequent urination  - dark-colored urine  - lethargy, dizziness, or faintness
                
Signs of dehydration in infants and young children are
                
- dry mouth and tongue  - lack of tears when crying  - no wet diapers for 3 hours or more  - high fever  - unusually cranky or drowsy behavior  - sunken eyes, cheeks, or soft spot in the skull
                
Also, when people are dehydrated, their skin does not flatten back to normal right away after being gently pinched and released.
                
Severe dehydration may require intravenous fluids and hospitalization. Untreated severe dehydration can cause serious health problems such as organ damage, shock, or comaa sleeplike state in which a person is not conscious.
                
HUS
                
Hemolytic uremic syndrome is a rare disease that mostly affects children younger than 10 years of age. HUS develops when E. coli bacteria lodged in the digestive tract make toxins that enter the bloodstream. The toxins start to destroy red blood cells, which help the blood to clot, and the lining of the blood vessels.
                
In the United States, E. coli O157:H7 infection is the most common cause of HUS, but infection with other strains of E. coli, other bacteria, and viruses may also cause HUS. A recent study found that about 6 percent of people with E. coli O157:H7 infections developed HUS. Children younger than age 5 have the highest risk, but females and people age 60 and older also have increased risk.3
                
Symptoms of E. coli O157:H7 infection include diarrhea, which may be bloody, and abdominal pain, often accompanied by nausea, vomiting, and fever. Up to a week after E. coli symptoms appear, symptoms of HUS may develop, including irritability, paleness, and decreased urination. HUS may lead to acute renal failure, which is a sudden and temporary loss of kidney function. HUS may also affect other organs and the central nervous system. Most people who develop HUS recover with treatment. Research shows that in the United States between 2000 and 2006, fewer than 5 percent of people who developed HUS died of the disorder. Older adults had the highest mortality rateabout one-third of people age 60 and older who developed HUS died.3
                
Studies have shown that some children who recover from HUS develop chronic complications, including kidney problems, high blood pressure, and diabetes.
                
Other Complications
                
Some foodborne illnesses lead to other serious complications. For example, C. botulinum and certain chemicals in fish and seafood can paralyze the muscles that control breathing. L. monocytogenes can cause spontaneous abortion or stillbirth in pregnant women.
                
Research suggests that acute foodborne illnesses may lead to chronic disorders, including
                
- reactive arthritis, a type of joint inflammation that usually affects the knees, ankles, or feet. Some people develop this disorder following foodborne illnesses caused by certain bacteria, including C. jejuni and Salmonella. Reactive arthritis usually lasts fewer than 6 months, but this condition may recur or become chronic arthritis.4  - irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), a disorder of unknown cause that is associated with abdominal pain, bloating, and diarrhea or constipation or both. Foodborne illnesses caused by bacteria increase the risk of developing IBS.5  - Guillain-Barr syndrome, a disorder characterized by muscle weakness or paralysis that begins in the lower body and progresses to the upper body. This syndrome may occur after foodborne illnesses caused by bacteria, most commonly C. jejuni. Most people recover in 6 to 12 months.6
                
A recent study found that adults who had recovered from E. coli O157:H7 infections had increased risks of high blood pressure, kidney problems, and cardiovascular disease.7

Question: What are the complications of Cyclic Vomiting Syndrome ?
Answer: The severe vomiting and retching that define cyclic vomiting syndrome increase the chance of developing several complications, including dehydration, esophagitis, a Mallory-Weiss tear, and tooth decay.
                
- Dehydration may occur when a person does not replace fluids that were lost because of vomiting and diarrhea. When dehydrated, the body lacks enough fluid and electrolytesminerals in salts, including sodium, potassium, and chlorideto function properly. Severe dehydration may require intravenous (IV) fluids and hospitalization.  - Esophagitisinflammation or irritation of the esophaguscan result from the stomach acid that exits through the esophagus during vomiting.  - A Mallory-Weiss teara tear in the lower end of the esophagusis caused by severe vomiting. A person with bloody vomit and stool should see a health care provider right away.  - Tooth decay or corroding tooth enamel is damage caused by stomach acid.
                

                
Seek Help for Signs or Symptoms of Severe Dehydration   People who have any signs or symptoms of severe dehydration should call or see a health care provider right away:   - excessive thirst   - dark-colored urine   - infrequent urination   - lethargy, dizziness, or faintness   - dry skin    Infants, children, older adults, and people with weak immune systems have the greatest chance of becoming dehydrated. People should watch for the following signs and symptoms of dehydration in infants, young children, and people who are unable to communicate their symptoms:   - dry mouth and tongue   - lack of tears when crying   - infants with no wet diapers for 3 hours or more   - infants with a sunken soft spot   - unusually cranky or drowsy behavior   - sunken eyes or cheeks   - fever    If left untreated, severe dehydration can cause serious health problems, such as organ damage, shock, or comaa sleeplike state in which a person is not conscious.

Question: What are the complications of Nephrotic Syndrome in Adults ?
Answer: The loss of different proteins from the body can lead to a variety of complications in people with nephrotic syndrome. Blood clots can form when proteins that normally prevent them are lost through the urine. Blood clots can block the flow of blood and oxygen through a blood vessel. Loss of immunoglobulinsimmune system proteins that help fight disease and infectionleads to an increased risk of infections. These infections include pneumonia, a lung infection; cellulitis, a skin infection; peritonitis, an abdominal infection; and meningitis, a brain and spine infection. Medications given to treat nephrotic syndrome can also increase the risk of these infections. Other complications of nephrotic syndrome include
                
- hypothyroidisma condition in which the thyroid gland does not produce enough thyroid hormone to meet the bodys needs  - anemiaa condition in which red blood cells are fewer or smaller than normal, which means less oxygen is carried to the bodys cells  - coronary artery disease, also called coronary heart diseaseheart disease caused by narrowing of the arteries that supply blood to the heart  - high blood pressure, also called hypertensiona condition in which blood flows through the blood vessels with a force greater than normal  - acute kidney injurysudden and temporary loss of kidney function

Question: What are the complications of Alagille Syndrome ?
Answer: The complications of Alagille syndrome include liver failure, portal hypertension, and growth problems. People with Alagille syndrome usually have a combination of complications, and may not have every complication listed below.
                
Liver failure. Over time, the decreased number of bile ducts may lead to chronic liver failure, also called end-stage liver disease. This condition progresses over months, years, or even decades. The liver can no longer perform important functions or effectively replace damaged cells. A person may need a liver transplant. A liver transplant is surgery to remove a diseased or an injured liver and replace it with a healthy whole liver or a segment of a liver from another person, called a donor.
                
Portal hypertension. The spleen is the organ that cleans blood and makes white blood cells. White blood cells attack bacteria and other foreign cells. Blood flow from the spleen drains directly into the liver. When a person with Alagille syndrome has advanced liver disease, the blood flow backs up into the spleen and other blood vessels. This condition is called portal hypertension. The spleen may become larger in the later stages of liver disease. A person with an enlarged spleen should avoid contact sports to protect the organ from injury. Advanced portal hypertension can lead to serious bleeding problems.
                
Growth problems. Alagille syndrome can lead to poor growth in infants and children, as well as delayed puberty in older children. Liver disease can cause malabsorption, which can result in growth problems. Malabsorption is the inability of the small intestine to absorb nutrients from foods, which results in protein, calorie, and vitamin deficiencies. Serious heart problems, if present in Alagille syndrome, can also affect growth.
                
Malabsorption. People with Alagille syndrome may have diarrhealoose, watery stoolsdue to malabsorption. The condition occurs because bile is necessary for the digestion of food. Malabsorption can lead to bone fractures, eye problems, blood-clotting problems, and learning delays.
                
Long-term Outlook
                
The long-term outlook for people with Alagille syndrome depends on several factors, including the severity of liver damage and heart problems. Predicting who will experience improved bile flow and who will progress to chronic liver failure is difficult. Ten to 30 percent of people with Alagille syndrome will eventually need a liver transplant.3
                
Many adults with Alagille syndrome whose symptoms improve with treatment lead normal, productive lives. Deaths in people with Alagille syndrome are most often caused by chronic liver failure, heart problems, and blood vessel problems.

Question: What are the complications of Henoch-Schnlein Purpura ?
Answer: In children, the risk of kidney damage leading to long-term problems may be as high as 15 percent, but kidney failure affects only about 1 percent of children with HSP.1 Up to 40 percent of adults with HSP will have CKD or kidney failure within 15 years after diagnosis.3
                
A rare complication of HSP is intussusception of the bowel, which includes the small and large intestines. With this condition, a section of the bowel folds into itself like a telescope, causing the bowel to become blocked.
                
Women with a history of HSP who become pregnant are at higher risk for high blood pressure and proteinuria during pregnancy.

Question: What are the complications of Perineal Injury in Males ?
Answer: Injury to the blood vessels, nerves, and muscles in the perineum can lead to complications such as
                
- bladder control problems  - sexual problems
                
Bladder control problems. The nerves in the perineum carry signals from the bladder to the spinal cord and brain, telling the brain when the bladder is full. Those same nerves carry signals from the brain to the bladder and pelvic floor muscles, directing those muscles to hold or release urine. Injury to those nerves can block or interfere with the signals, causing the bladder to squeeze at the wrong time or not to squeeze at all. Damage to the pelvic floor muscles can cause bladder and bowel control problems.
                
Sexual problems. The perineal nerves also carry signals between the genitals and the brain. Injury to those nerves can interfere with the sensations of sexual contact.
                
Signals from the brain direct the smooth muscles in the genitals to relax, causing greater blood flow into the penis. In men, damaged blood vessels can cause erectile dysfunction (ED), the inability to achieve or maintain an erection firm enough for sexual intercourse. An internal portion of the penis runs through the perineum and contains a section of the urethra. As a result, damage to the perineum may also injure the penis and urethra.

Question: What are the complications of Peyronie's Disease ?
Answer: Complications of Peyronies disease may include
                
- the inability to have sexual intercourse  - ED  - anxiety, or stress, about sexual abilities or the appearance of the penis  - stress on a relationship with a sexual partner  - problems fathering a child because intercourse is difficult

Question: What are the complications of Gastritis ?
Answer: The complications of chronic gastritis may include
                
- peptic ulcers. Peptic ulcers are sores involving the lining of the stomach or duodenum, the first part of the small intestine. NSAID use and H. pylori gastritis increase the chance of developing peptic ulcers.  - atrophic gastritis. Atrophic gastritis happens when chronic inflammation of the stomach lining causes the loss of the stomach lining and glands. Chronic gastritis can progress to atrophic gastritis.  - anemia. Erosive gastritis can cause chronic bleeding in the stomach, and the blood loss can lead to anemia. Anemia is a condition in which red blood cells are fewer or smaller than normal, which prevents the body's cells from getting enough oxygen. Red blood cells contain hemoglobin, an iron-rich protein that gives blood its red color and enables the red blood cells to transport oxygen from the lungs to the tissues of the body. Research suggests that H. pylori gastritis and autoimmune atrophic gastritis can interfere with the body's ability to absorb iron from food, which may also cause anemia. Read more about anemia at www.nhlbi.nih.gov.  - vitamin B12 deficiency and pernicious anemia. People with autoimmune atrophic gastritis do not produce enough intrinsic factor. Intrinsic factor is a protein made in the stomach and helps the intestines absorb vitamin B12. The body needs vitamin B12 to make red blood cells and nerve cells. Poor absorption of vitamin B12 may lead to a type of anemia called pernicious anemia. Read more about pernicious anemia at www.nhlbi.nih.gov.  - growths in the stomach lining. Chronic gastritis increases the chance of developing benign, or noncancerous, and malignant, or cancerous, growths in the stomach lining. Chronic H. pylori gastritis increases the chance of developing a type of cancer called gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma. Read more about MALT lymphoma and gastric cancer at www.cancer.gov.
                
In most cases, acute gastritis does not lead to complications. In rare cases, acute stress gastritis can cause severe bleeding that can be life threatening.

Question: What are the complications of Kidney Dysplasia ?
Answer: The complications of kidney dysplasia can include
                
- hydronephrosis of the working kidney. A baby with kidney dysplasia in only one kidney might have other urinary tract defects. When other defects in the urinary tract block the flow of urine, the urine backs up and causes the kidneys and ureters to swell, a condition called hydronephrosis. If left untreated, hydronephrosis can damage the working kidney and reduce its ability to filter blood. Kidney damage may lead to chronic kidney disease (CKD) and kidney failure.  - a urinary tract infection (UTI). A urine blockage may increase a babys chance of developing a UTI. Recurring UTIs can also lead to kidney damage.  - high blood pressure.  - a slightly increased chance of developing kidney cancer.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics, urine blockage in newbornsand UTIs in children.

Question: What are the complications of Biliary Atresia ?
Answer: After the Kasai procedure, some infants continue to have liver problems and, even with the return of bile flow, some infants develop cirrhosis. Possible complications after the Kasai procedure include ascites, bacterial cholangitis, portal hypertension, and pruritus.
                
Ascites. Problems with liver function can cause fluid to build up in the abdomen, called ascites. Ascites can lead to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, a serious infection that requires immediate medical attention. Ascites usually only lasts a few weeks. If ascites lasts more than 6 weeks, cirrhosis is likely present and the infant will probably need a liver transplant.
                
Bacterial cholangitis. Bacterial cholangitis is an infection of the bile ducts that is treated with bacteria-fighting medications called antibiotics.
                
Portal hypertension. The portal vein carries blood from the stomach, intestines, spleen, gallbladder, and pancreas to the liver. In cirrhosis, scar tissue partially blocks and slows the normal flow of blood, which increases the pressure in the portal vein. This condition is called portal hypertension. Portal hypertension can cause gastrointestinal bleeding that may require surgery and an eventual liver transplant.
                
Pruritus. Pruritus is caused by bile buildup in the blood and irritation of nerve endings in the skin. Prescription medication may be recommended for pruritus, including resins that bind bile in the intestines and antihistamines that decrease the skins sensation of itching.

Question: What are the complications of Pyelonephritis: Kidney Infection ?
Answer: Most people with pyelonephritis do not have complications if appropriately treated with bacteria-fighting medications called antibiotics.
                
In rare cases, pyelonephritis may cause permanent kidney scars, which can lead to chronic kidney disease, high blood pressure, and kidney failure. These problems usually occur in people with a structural problem in the urinary tract, kidney disease from other causes, or repeated episodes of pyelonephritis.
                
Infection in the kidneys may spread to the bloodstreama serious condition called sepsisthough this is also uncommon.

Question: What are the complications of Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis ?
Answer: PSC can lead to various complications, including
                
- deficiencies of vitamins A, D, E, and K  - infections of the bile ducts  - cirrhosisextensive scarring of the liver  - liver failure  - bile duct cancer

Question: What are the complications of Ectopic Kidney ?
Answer: Possible complications of an ectopic kidney include problems with urine drainage from that kidney. Sometimes, urine can even flow backwards from the bladder to the kidney, a problem called vesicoureteral reflux (VUR). More information about VUR is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Vesicoureteral Reflux.
                
Abnormal urine flow and the placement of the ectopic kidney can lead to various problems:
                
- Infection. Normally, urine flow washes out bacteria and keeps them from growing in the kidneys and urinary tract. When a kidney is out of the usual position, urine may get trapped in the ureter or in the kidney itself. Urine that remains in the urinary tract gives bacteria the chance to grow and spread. Symptoms of a urinary tract infection include frequent or painful urination, back or abdominal pain, fever, chills, and cloudy or foul-smelling urine.  - Stones. Urinary stones form from substances found in the urine, such as calcium and oxalate. When urine remains in the urinary tract for too long, the risk that these substances will have time to form stones is increased. Symptoms of urinary stones include extreme pain in the back, side, or pelvis; blood in the urine; fever or chills; vomiting; and a burning feeling during urination.  - Kidney damage. If urine backs up all the way to the kidney, damage to the kidney can occur. As a result, the kidney cant filter wastes and extra water from the blood. One ectopic kidney, even when it has no function, will not cause kidney failure. The other kidney can usually perform the functions of two healthy kidneys. Total kidney failure happens only in rare cases when both kidneys are damaged.  - Trauma. If the ectopic kidney is in the lower abdomen or pelvis, it may be susceptible to injury from blunt trauma. People with an ectopic kidney who want to participate in body contact sports may want to wear protective gear.

Question: What are the complications of Viral Gastroenteritis ?
Answer: Dehydration is the most common complication of viral gastroenteritis. When someone does not drink enough fluids to replace those that are lost through vomiting and diarrhea, dehydration can result. When dehydrated, the body does not have enough fluids to keep the proper balance of important salts or minerals, known as electrolytes. Infants, young children, older adults, and people with weak immune systems have the greatest risk of becoming dehydrated.
                
The signs of dehydration in adults are
                
- excessive thirst  - infrequent urination  - dark-colored urine  - dry skin  - lethargy, dizziness, or faintness
                
Signs of dehydration in babies and young children are
                
- dry mouth and tongue  - lack of tears when crying  - no wet diapers for 3 hours or more  - high fever  - unusually cranky or drowsy behavior  - sunken eyes, cheeks, or soft spot in the skull
                
Also, when people are dehydrated, their skin does not flatten back to normal right away after being gently pinched and released.
                
People should talk with a health care provider if they have
                
- blood in their stool, which may indicate a bacterial infection  - symptoms that are severe or last more than a few days  - symptoms of dehydration
                
Severe dehydration may require intravenous fluids and hospitalization. Untreated severe dehydration can cause serious health problems such as organ damage, shock, or comaa sleeplike state in which a person is not conscious.

Question: What are the complications of Mineral and Bone Disorder in Chronic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: The complications of mineral and bone disorder in CKD include slowed bone growth and deformities, and heart and blood vessel problems.
                
Slowed Bone Growth and Deformities
                
Damaged kidneys must work harder to clear phosphorus from the body. High levels of phosphorus cause lower levels of calcium in the blood, resulting in the following series of events:
                
- When a persons blood calcium level becomes too low, the parathyroid glands release parathyroid hormone.  - Parathyroid hormone removes calcium from bones and places it into the blood, raising a persons blood calcium level at the risk of harming bones.  - A low calcitriol level also leads to an increased level of parathyroid hormone.
                
If mineral and bone disorder in CKD remains untreated in adults, bones gradually become thin and weak, and a person with the condition may begin to feel bone and joint pain. Mineral and bone disorder in CKD also increases a persons risk of bone fractures.
                
Heart and Blood Vessel Problems
                
In addition to harming bones, mineral and bone disorder in CKD can cause problems in the heart and blood vessels:
                
- High levels of blood calcium can damage blood vessels and lead to heart problems.  - High phosphorus levels also can cause blood vessels to become like bone, leading to hardening of the arteries.  - High phosphorus levels also cause abnormal hormone regulation, even if the calcium level is acceptable.
                
Parathyroid hormone and another hormone made in the bones called FGF23 can also affect bone and heart health, leading to the following series of problems:
                
- When parathyroid hormone or FGF23 levels are high, a person can have heart problems.   - The complex hormone abnormalities that cause bone deformities can also harm a persons heart and blood vessels.

Question: What are the complications of Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome in Children ?
Answer: Most children who develop hemolytic uremic syndrome and its complications recover without permanent damage to their health.1
                
However, children with hemolytic uremic syndrome may have serious and sometimes life-threatening complications, including
                
- acute kidney injury  - high blood pressure  - blood-clotting problems that can lead to bleeding  - seizures  - heart problems  - chronic, or long lasting, kidney disease  - stroke  - coma

Question: What are the complications of IgA Nephropathy ?
Answer: Complications of IgA nephropathy include
                
- high blood pressure  - acute kidney failuresudden and temporary loss of kidney function  - chronic kidney failurereduced kidney function over a period of time  - nephrotic syndromea collection of symptoms that indicate kidney damage; symptoms include albuminuria, lack of protein in the blood, and high blood cholesterol levels  - heart or cardiovascular problems  - Henoch-Schnlein purpura
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics, Kidney Disease and Kidney Failure.

Question: What are the complications of Cirrhosis ?
Answer: As the liver fails, complications may develop. In some people, complications may be the first signs of the disease. Complications of cirrhosis may include the following:
                
Portal hypertension. The portal vein carries blood from the stomach, intestines, spleen, gallbladder, and pancreas to the liver. In cirrhosis, scar tissue partially blocks the normal flow of blood, which increases the pressure in the portal vein. This condition is called portal hypertension. Portal hypertension is a common complication of cirrhosis. This condition may lead to other complications, such as
                
- fluid buildup leading to edema and ascites  - enlarged blood vessels, called varices, in the esophagus, stomach, or both  - an enlarged spleen, called splenomegaly  - mental confusion due to a buildup of toxins that are ordinarily removed by the liver, a condition called hepatic encephalopathy
                
Edema and ascites. Liver failure causes fluid buildup that results in edema and ascites. Ascites can lead to spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, a serious infection that requires immediate medical attention.
                
Varices. Portal hypertension may cause enlarged blood vessels in the esophagus, stomach, or both. These enlarged blood vessels, called esophageal or gastric varices, cause the vessel walls to become thin and blood pressure to increase, making the blood vessels more likely to burst. If they burst, serious bleeding can occur in the esophagus or upper stomach, requiring immediate medical attention.
                
Splenomegaly. Portal hypertension may cause the spleen to enlarge and retain white blood cells and platelets, reducing the numbers of these cells and platelets in the blood. A low platelet count may be the first evidence that a person has developed cirrhosis.
                
Hepatic encephalopathy. A failing liver cannot remove toxins from the blood, so they eventually accumulate in the brain. The buildup of toxins in the brain is called hepatic encephalopathy. This condition can decrease mental function and cause stupor and even coma. Stupor is an unconscious, sleeplike state from which a person can only be aroused briefly by a strong stimulus, such as a sharp pain. Coma is an unconscious, sleeplike state from which a person cannot be aroused. Signs of decreased mental function include
                
- confusion  - personality changes  - memory loss  - trouble concentrating  - a change in sleep habits
                
Metabolic bone diseases. Some people with cirrhosis develop a metabolic bone disease, which is a disorder of bone strength usually caused by abnormalities of vitamin D, bone mass, bone structure, or minerals, such as calcium and phosphorous. Osteopenia is a condition in which the bones become less dense, making them weaker. When bone loss becomes more severe, the condition is referred to as osteoporosis. People with these conditions are more likely to develop bone fractures.
                
Gallstones and bile duct stones. If cirrhosis prevents bile from flowing freely to and from the gallbladder, the bile hardens into gallstones. Symptoms of gallstones include abdominal pain and recurrent bacterial cholangitisirritated or infected bile ducts. Stones may also form in and block the bile ducts, causing pain, jaundice, and bacterial cholangitis.
                
Bruising and bleeding. When the liver slows the production of or stops producing the proteins needed for blood clotting, a person will bruise or bleed easily.
                
Sensitivity to medications. Cirrhosis slows the livers ability to filter medications from the blood. When this slowdown occurs, medications act longer than expected and build up in the body. For example, some pain medications may have a stronger effect or produce more side effects in people with cirrhosis than in people with a healthy liver.
                
Insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. Cirrhosis causes resistance to insulin. The pancreas tries to keep up with the demand for insulin by producing more; however, extra glucose builds up in the bloodstream, causing type 2 diabetes.
                
Liver cancer. Liver cancer is common in people with cirrhosis. Liver cancer has a high mortality rate. Current treatments are limited and only fully successful if a health care provider detects the cancer early, before the tumor is too large. For this reason, health care providers should check people with cirrhosis for signs of liver cancer every 6 to 12 months. Health care providers use blood tests, ultrasound, or both to check for signs of liver cancer.
                
Other complications. Cirrhosis can cause immune system dysfunction, leading to an increased chance of infection. Cirrhosis can also cause kidney and lung failure, known as hepatorenal and hepatopulmonary syndromes.

Question: What are the complications of Medullary Sponge Kidney ?
Answer: Complications of medullary sponge kidney include
                
- hematuria, or blood in the urine  - kidney stones  - urinary tract infections (UTIs)
                
Medullary sponge kidney rarely leads to more serious problems, such as chronic kidney disease or kidney failure.

Question: What are the complications of Vesicoureteral Reflux ?
Answer: When a child with VUR gets a UTI, bacteria can move into the kidney and lead to scarring. Scarring of the kidney can be associated with high blood pressure and kidney failure. However, most children with VUR who get a UTI recover without long-term complications.

Question: What are the complications of Ulcerative Colitis ?
Answer: Complications of ulcerative colitis can include
                
- rectal bleedingwhen ulcers in the intestinal lining open and bleed. Rectal bleeding can cause anemia, which health care providers can treat with diet changes and iron supplements. People who have a large amount of bleeding in the intestine over a short period of time may require surgery to stop the bleeding. Severe bleeding is a rare complication of ulcerative colitis.  - dehydration and malabsorbtion, which occur when the large intestine is unable to absorb fluids and nutrients because of diarrhea and inflammation. Some people may need IV fluids to replace lost nutrients and fluids.  - changes in bones. Some corticosteroid medications taken to treat ulcerative colitis symptoms can cause      - osteoporosisthe loss of bone    - osteopenialow bone density
                
Health care providers will monitor people for bone loss and can recommend calcium and vitamin D supplements and medications to help prevent or slow bone loss.
                
- inflammation in other areas of the body. The immune system can trigger inflammation in the      - joints    - eyes    - skin    - liver
                
Health care providers can treat inflammation by adjusting medications or prescribing new medications.
                
- megacolona serious complication that occurs when inflammation spreads to the deep tissue layers of the large intestine. The large intestine swells and stops working. Megacolon can be a life-threatening complication and most often requires surgery. Megacolon is a rare complication of ulcerative colitis.
                

                
Ulcerative Colitis and Colon Cancer   People with ulcerative colitis may be more likely to develop colon cancer when   - ulcerative colitis affects the entire colon   - a person has ulcerative colitis for at least 8 years   - inflammation is ongoing   - people also have primary sclerosing cholangitis, a condition that affects the liver   - a person is male    People who receive ongoing treatment and remain in remission may reduce their chances of developing colon cancer.   People with ulcerative colitis should talk with their health care provider about how often they should get screened for colon cancer. Screening can include colonoscopy with biopsies or a special dye spray called chromoendoscopy.   Health care providers may recommend colonoscopy every 1 to 3 years for people with ulcerative colitis who have   - the disease in one-third or more or of their colon   - had ulcerative colitis for 8 years    Such screening does not reduce a person's chances of developing colon cancer. Instead, screening can help diagnose cancer early and improve chances for recovery.   Surgery to remove the entire colon eliminates the risk of colon cancer.

Question: What are the complications of Short Bowel Syndrome ?
Answer: The complications of short bowel syndrome may include
                
- malnutrition  - peptic ulcerssores on the lining of the stomach or duodenum caused by too much gastric acid  - kidney stonessolid pieces of material that form in the kidneys  - small intestinal bacterial overgrowtha condition in which abnormally large numbers of bacteria grow in the small intestine
                

                
Seek Help for Signs or Symptoms of Severe Dehydration   People who have any signs or symptoms of severe dehydration should call or see a health care provider right away:   - excessive thirst   - dark-colored urine   - infrequent urination   - lethargy, dizziness, or faintness   - dry skin    Infants and children are most likely to become dehydrated. Parents or caretakers should watch for the following signs and symptoms of dehydration:   - dry mouth and tongue   - lack of tears when crying   - infants with no wet diapers for 3 hours or more   - infants with a sunken soft spot   - unusually cranky or drowsy behavior   - sunken eyes or cheeks   - fever    If left untreated, severe dehydration can cause serious health problems:   - organ damage   - shockwhen low blood pressure prevents blood and oxygen from getting to organs   - comaa sleeplike state in which a person is not conscious

Question: What are the complications of Knee Replacement ?
Answer: While new technology and advances in surgical techniques have greatly reduced the risks involved with knee replacements, there are still some risks you should be aware of. Two of the most common possible problems are blood clots and infection. Preventing Blood Clots Blood clots can occur in the veins of your legs after knee replacement surgery. To reduce the risk of clots, your doctor may have you elevate your leg periodically and prescribe special exercises, support hose, or blood thinners. Preventing Infections Infection can occur when bacteria enter the bloodstream from skin or urinary tract infections. To reduce the risk of infection, your doctors may prescribe antibiotics for you to take prior to your surgery and for a short time afterward. Other Complications Other complications, such as new or ongoing pain, stiffness, fracture, bleeding, or injury to the blood vessels can occur. Serious medical complications, such as heart attack or stroke, are very rare. Warning Signs To Watch For To minimize the risk of complications, it is important to recognize signs of potential problems early and contact your doctor. For example, tenderness, redness, and swelling of your calf or swelling of your thigh, ankle, calf, or foot could be warning signs of a possible blood clot. Warning signs of infection include fever or chills, tenderness and swelling of the wound, and drainage from the wound. You should call your doctor if you experience any of these symptoms. It is important to get instructions from your doctor before leaving the hospital and follow them carefully once you get home. Doing so will give you the greatest chance of a successful surgery.

Question: What are the complications of Knee Replacement ?
Answer: Two of the most common possible problems are blood clots and infection. Other complications, such as new or ongoing pain, stiffness, fracture, bleeding, or injury to the blood vessels can occur. Serious medical complications, such as heart attack or stroke, are very rare.

Question: What are the complications of Knee Replacement ?
Answer: To reduce the risk of clots, your doctor may have you elevate your leg periodically and prescribe special exercises, support hose, or blood thinners. To reduce the risk of infection, your doctor may prescribe antibiotics for you to take prior to your surgery and for a short time afterward.

Question: What are the complications of Shingles ?
Answer: The most common complication of shingles is pain -- a condition called post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN). People with PHN have severe pain in the areas where they had the shingles rash, even after the rash clears up. In most patients, the pain usually clears up in a few weeks or months, but some people can have pain from PHN for years. Shingles may also lead to other serious complications. - Outbreaks that start on the face or eyes can cause vision or hearing problems. Even permanent blindness can result if the cornea of the eye is affected.  -  Bacterial infection of the open sores can lead to scarring.   - In a very small number of cases, bacteria can cause more serious conditions, including toxic shock syndrome and necrotizing fasciitis, a severe infection that destroys the soft tissue under the skin.  - The burning waves of pain, loss of sleep, and interference with even basic life activities can cause serious depression.  - In patients with immune deficiency, the rash can be much more extensive than usual and the illness can be complicated by pneumonia. These cases are more serious, but they are rarely fatal.  - Very rarely, shingles can also lead to pneumonia, brain inflammation (encephalitis), or death.  Outbreaks that start on the face or eyes can cause vision or hearing problems. Even permanent blindness can result if the cornea of the eye is affected. Bacterial infection of the open sores can lead to scarring. In a very small number of cases, bacteria can cause more serious conditions, including toxic shock syndrome and necrotizing fasciitis, a severe infection that destroys the soft tissue under the skin. The burning waves of pain, loss of sleep, and interference with even basic life activities can cause serious depression. In patients with immune deficiency, the rash can be much more extensive than usual and the illness can be complicated by pneumonia. These cases are more serious, but they are rarely fatal. Very rarely, shingles can also lead to pneumonia, brain inflammation (encephalitis), or death.

Question: What are the complications of Paget's Disease of Bone ?
Answer: Over time, Paget's disease may lead to other medical conditions, including arthritis, headaches, hearing loss, and nervous system problems, depending on which bones are affected. On very rare occasions, Paget's disease is associated with the development of osteosarcoma, a type of bone cancer. Less than one percent of patients have this complication.

