Question: What to do for Lactose Intolerance ?
Answer: People may find it helpful to talk with a health care provider or a registered dietitian about a dietary plan. A dietary plan can help people manage the symptoms of lactose intolerance and make sure they get enough nutrients. Parents, caretakers, childcare providers, and others who serve food to children with lactose intolerance should follow the dietary plan recommended by the childs health care provider or registered dietitian.
                
Milk and milk products. Gradually introducing small amounts of milk or milk products may help some people adapt to them with fewer symptoms. Often, people can better tolerate milk or milk products by having them with meals, such as having milk with cereal or having cheese with crackers. People with lactose intolerance are generally more likely to tolerate hard cheeses, such as cheddar or Swiss, than a glass of milk. A 1.5ounce serving of low-fat hard cheese has less than 1 gram of lactose, while a 1-cup serving of low-fat milk has about 11 to 13 grams of lactose.2
                
However, people with lactose intolerance are also more likely to tolerate yogurt than milk, even though yogurt and milk have similar amounts of lactose.2
                
Lactose-free and lactose-reduced milk and milk products. Lactose-free and lactose-reduced milk and milk products are available at most supermarkets and are identical nutritionally to regular milk and milk products. Manufacturers treat lactose-free milk with the lactase enzyme. This enzyme breaks down the lactose in the milk. Lactose-free milk remains fresh for about the same length of time or, if it is ultra-pasteurized, longer than regular milk. Lactose-free milk may have a slightly sweeter taste than regular milk.
                
Lactase products. People can use lactase tablets and drops when they eat or drink milk products. The lactase enzyme digests the lactose in the food and therefore reduces the chances of developing digestive symptoms. People should check with a health care provider before using these products because some groups, such as young children and pregnant and breastfeeding women, may not be able to use them.

Question: What to do for Lactose Intolerance ?
Answer: - Lactose is a sugar found in milk and milk products.  - Lactose intolerance is a condition in which people have digestive symptomssuch as bloating, diarrhea, and gasafter eating or drinking milk or milk products.  - A health care provider makes a diagnosis of lactose intolerance based on medical, family, and diet history, including a review of symptoms; a physical exam; and medical tests.  - Basing a diagnosis on symptoms alone may be misleading because digestive symptoms can occur for many reasons other than lactose intolerance.  - Most people with lactose intolerance can tolerate some amount of lactose in their diet and do not need to avoid milk or milk products completely. However, individuals vary in the amount of lactose they can tolerate.  - Research suggests that adults and adolescents with lactose malabsorption could eat or drink at least 12 grams of lactose in one sitting without symptoms or with only minor symptoms. This amount is the amount of lactose in 1 cup of milk.  - Many people can manage the symptoms of lactose intolerance by changing their diet. Some people may only need to limit the amount of lactose they eat or drink. Others may need to avoid lactose altogether.  - People may find it helpful to talk with a health care provider or a registered dietitian to determine if their diet provides adequate nutrients including calcium and vitamin D. To help ensure coordinated and safe care, people should discuss their use of complementary and alternative medical practices, including their use of dietary supplements, with their health care provider.  - Lactose is in all milk and milk products. Manufacturers also often add milk and milk products to boxed, canned, frozen, packaged, and prepared foods. People can check the ingredients on food labels to find possible sources of lactose in food products.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Crohn's Disease ?
Answer: Your health care provider may start you on a special diet, so you get extra nutrition and calories. High-calorie liquid supplements are often used to give you the extra calories and right amount of vitamins and minerals to keep you healthy. During acute phases of the disease, you may need to receive intravenous nutrition to give the intestine a rest.
                
No foods are known to cause injury or inflammation to the intestine. But foods such as hot spices, alcohol, greasy foods, and milk products may make diarrhea and cramping worse. You should eat a healthy diet and avoid foods that make symptoms worse. Your health care provider may refer you to a dietitian to help you with meal planning.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Crohn's Disease ?
Answer: - Crohn's disease is a disease that causes inflammation, or swelling, and irritation of any part of the digestive tractalso called the gastrointestinal (GI) tract.  - People with Crohns disease may have a blood relative with the disease or another type of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).  - Symptoms of Crohns disease include abdominal pain, diarrhea, bleeding, weight loss, and fever.  - A physical exam, blood tests, stool tests, and other tests are needed to diagnose Crohns disease.  - Problems of Crohns disease include intestinal blockage, fistulas, abscesses, anemia, and slower growth in children.  - Doctors treat Crohns disease with medicines, surgery, diet, and nutrition.  - People with Crohns disease should eat a healthy diet and avoid foods that make symptoms worse.  - Quitting smoking can help make Crohns disease less severe. Ask your health care provider if you need help quitting smoking.  - Support groups may help lower stress for people with Crohns disease.  - Most people with Crohns disease are able to work, raise families, and live full lives.  - Many women with Crohns disease can become pregnant and have a baby. You should talk with your health care provider before getting pregnant.

Question: What to do for Smoking and the Digestive System ?
Answer: Eating, diet, and nutrition can play a role in causing, preventing, and treating some of the diseases and disorders of the digestive system that are affected by smoking, including heartburn and GERD, liver diseases, Crohns disease, colon polyps, pancreatitis, and gallstones. More information about eating, diet, and nutrition and these conditions can be found on the Digestive Diseases A-Z list.

Question: What to do for Smoking and the Digestive System ?
Answer: - Smoking has been found to increase the risk of cancers of the mouth, esophagus, stomach, and pancreas. Research suggests that smoking may also increase the risk of cancers of the liver, colon, and rectum.  - Smoking increases the risk of heartburn and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).  - Smoking increases the risk of peptic ulcers.  - Smoking may worsen some liver diseases, including primary biliary cirrhosis and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).  - Current and former smokers have a higher risk of developing Crohns disease than people who have never smoked.  - People who smoke are more likely to develop colon polyps.  - Smoking increases the risk of developing pancreatitis.  - Some studies have shown that smoking may increase the risk of developing gallstones. However, research results are not consistent and more study is needed.  - Quitting smoking can reverse some of the effects of smoking on the digestive system.

Question: What to do for High Blood Pressure and Kidney Disease ?
Answer: Following a healthy eating plan can help lower blood pressure. A health care provider may recommend the Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) eating plan. DASH focuses on fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and other foods that are heart healthy and lower in sodium, which often comes from salt. The DASH eating plan
                
- is low in fat and cholesterol  - features fat-free or low-fat milk and dairy products, fish, poultry, and nuts  - suggests less red meat, sweets, added sugars, and sugar-containing beverages  - is rich in nutrients, protein, and fiber
                
Read more about DASH at www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/resources/heart/hbp-dash-index.htm.
                
A dietitian may also recommend this type of diet for people who have already developed kidney disease. A diet low in sodium and liquid intake can help reduce edema and lower blood pressure. Reducing saturated fat and cholesterol can help control high levels of lipids, or fats, in the blood.
                
Health care providers may recommend that people with kidney disease eat moderate or reduced amounts of protein, though the benefits of reducing protein in a persons diet is still being researched. Proteins break down into waste products that the kidneys filter from the blood. Eating more protein than the body needs may burden the kidneys and cause kidney function to decline faster. However, protein intake that is too low may lead to malnutrition, a condition that occurs when the body does not get enough nutrients. People with kidney disease who are on a restricted protein diet should be monitored with blood tests that can show low nutrient levels.
                
In addition, consuming too much alcohol raises blood pressure, so people should limit alcoholic drinkstwo per day for men and one per day for women.
                
A health care provider can help people change their diet to meet their individual needs.
                
Physical Activity
                
Regular physical activity can lower blood pressure and reduce the chances of other health problems. A health care provider can provide information about how much and what kinds of activity are safe. Most people should try to get at least 30 to 60 minutes of activity most or all days of the week. A person can do all physical activity at once or break up activities into shorter periods of at least 10 minutes each. Moderate activities include brisk walking, dancing, bowling, riding a bike, working in a garden, and cleaning the house.
                
Body Weight
                
People who are overweight or obese should aim to reduce their weight by 7 to 10 percent during the first year of treatment for high blood pressure. This amount of weight loss can lower the chance of health problems related to high blood pressure. Overweight is defined as a body mass index (BMI)a measurement of weight in relation to heightof 25 to 29. A BMI of 30 or higher is considered obese. A BMI lower than 25 is the goal for keeping blood pressure under control.5
                
Smoking
                
People who smoke should quit. Smoking can damage blood vessels, raise the chance of high blood pressure, and worsen health problems related to high blood pressure. People with high blood pressure should talk with their health care provider about programs and products they can use to quit smoking.
                
Stress
                
Learning how to manage stress, relax, and cope with problems can improve emotional and physical health. Some activities that may help reduce stress include
                
- exercising  - practicing yoga or tai chi  - listening to music  - focusing on something calm or peaceful  - meditating

Question: What to do for High Blood Pressure and Kidney Disease ?
Answer: - Blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against blood vessel walls as the heart pumps out blood, and high blood pressure, also called hypertension, is an increase in the amount of force that blood places on blood vessels as it moves through the body.  - High blood pressure can damage blood vessels in the kidneys, reducing their ability to work properly. When the force of blood flow is high, blood vessels stretch so blood flows more easily. Eventually, this stretching scars and weakens blood vessels throughout the body, including those in the kidneys.  - High blood pressure is the second leading cause of kidney failure in the United States after diabetes.  - A health care provider diagnoses high blood pressure when multiple blood pressure testsoften repeated over several visits to a health care providers officeshow that a systolic blood pressure is consistently above 140 or a diastolic blood pressure is consistently above 90.  - Kidney disease is diagnosed with urine and blood tests.  - The best way to slow or prevent kidney damage from high blood pressure is to take steps to lower blood pressure. These steps include a combination of medication and lifestyle changes, such as      - healthy eating    - physical activity    - maintaining a healthy weight    - quitting smoking    - managing stress    - No matter what the cause of the kidney disease, high blood pressure can increase damage to the kidneys. People with kidney disease should keep their blood pressure below 140/90.

Question: What to do for Hypoglycemia ?
Answer: Two types of hypoglycemia can occur in people who do not have diabetes:
                
- Reactive hypoglycemia, also called postprandial hypoglycemia, occurs within 4 hours after meals.  - Fasting hypoglycemia, also called postabsorptive hypoglycemia, is often related to an underlying disease.
                
Symptoms of both reactive and fasting hypoglycemia are similar to diabetes-related hypoglycemia. Symptoms may include hunger, sweating, shakiness, dizziness, light-headedness, sleepiness, confusion, difficulty speaking, anxiety, and weakness.
                
To find the cause of a patient's hypoglycemia, the doctor will use laboratory tests to measure blood glucose, insulin, and other chemicals that play a part in the body's use of energy.
                
Reactive Hypoglycemia
                
Diagnosis
                
To diagnose reactive hypoglycemia, the doctor may
                
- ask about signs and symptoms  - test blood glucose while the patient is having symptoms by taking a blood sample from the arm and sending it to a laboratory for analysis*  - check to see whether the symptoms ease after the patient's blood glucose returns to 70 mg/dL or above after eating or drinking
                
A blood glucose level below 70 mg/dL at the time of symptoms and relief after eating will confirm the diagnosis. The oral glucose tolerance test is no longer used to diagnose reactive hypoglycemia because experts now know the test can actually trigger hypoglycemic symptoms.
                
Causes and Treatment
                
The causes of most cases of reactive hypoglycemia are still open to debate. Some researchers suggest that certain people may be more sensitive to the body's normal release of the hormone epinephrine, which causes many of the symptoms of hypoglycemia. Others believe deficiencies in glucagon secretion might lead to reactive hypoglycemia.
                
A few causes of reactive hypoglycemia are certain, but they are uncommon. Gastricor stomachsurgery can cause reactive hypoglycemia because of the rapid passage of food into the small intestine. Rare enzyme deficiencies diagnosed early in life, such as hereditary fructose intolerance, also may cause reactive hypoglycemia.
                
To relieve reactive hypoglycemia, some health professionals recommend
                
- eating small meals and snacks about every 3 hours  - being physically active  - eating a variety of foods, including meat, poultry, fish, or nonmeat sources of protein; starchy foods such as whole-grain bread, rice, and potatoes; fruits; vegetables; and dairy products  - eating foods high in fiber  - avoiding or limiting foods high in sugar, especially on an empty stomach
                
The doctor can refer patients to a registered dietitian for personalized meal planning advice. Although some health professionals recommend a diet high in protein and low in carbohydrates, studies have not proven the effectiveness of this kind of diet to treat reactive hypoglycemia.
                
Fasting Hypoglycemia
                
Diagnosis
                
Fasting hypoglycemia is diagnosed from a blood sample that shows a blood glucose level below 50 mg/dL after an overnight fast, between meals, or after physical activity.
                
Causes and Treatment
                
Causes of fasting hypoglycemia include certain medications, alcoholic beverages, critical illnesses, hormonal deficiencies, some kinds of tumors, and certain conditions occurring in infancy and childhood.
                
Medications. Medications, including some used to treat diabetes, are the most common cause of hypoglycemia. Other medications that can cause hypoglycemia include
                
- salicylates, including aspirin, when taken in large doses  - sulfa medications, which are used to treat bacterial infections  - pentamidine, which treats a serious kind of pneumonia  - quinine, which is used to treat malaria
                
If using any of these medications causes a person's blood glucose level to fall, the doctor may advise stopping the medication or changing the dose.
                
Alcoholic beverages. Drinking alcoholic beverages, especially binge drinking, can cause hypoglycemia. The body's breakdown of alcohol interferes with the liver's efforts to raise blood glucose. Hypoglycemia caused by excessive drinking can be serious and even fatal.
                
Critical illnesses. Some illnesses that affect the liver, heart, or kidneys can cause hypoglycemia. Sepsis, which is an overwhelming infection, and starvation are other causes of hypoglycemia. In these cases, treating the illness or other underlying cause will correct the hypoglycemia.
                
Hormonal deficiencies. Hormonal deficiencies may cause hypoglycemia in very young children, but rarely in adults. Shortages of cortisol, growth hormone, glucagon, or epinephrine can lead to fasting hypoglycemia. Laboratory tests for hormone levels will determine a diagnosis and treatment. Hormone replacement therapy may be advised.
                
Tumors. Insulinomas are insulin-producing tumors in the pancreas. Insulinomas can cause hypoglycemia by raising insulin levels too high in relation to the blood glucose level. These tumors are rare and do not normally spread to other parts of the body. Laboratory tests can pinpoint the exact cause. Treatment involves both short-term steps to correct the hypoglycemia and medical or surgical measures to remove the tumor.
                
Conditions occurring in infancy and childhood. Children rarely develop hypoglycemia. If they do, causes may include the following:
                
- Brief intolerance to fasting, often during an illness that disturbs regular eating patterns. Children usually outgrow this tendency by age 10.  - Hyperinsulinism, which is the overproduction of insulin. This condition can result in temporary hypoglycemia in newborns, which is common in infants of mothers with diabetes. Persistent hyperinsulinism in infants or children is a complex disorder that requires prompt evaluation and treatment by a specialist.  - Enzyme deficiencies that affect carbohydrate metabolism. These deficiencies can interfere with the body's ability to process natural sugars, such as fructose and galactose, glycogen, or other metabolites.  - Hormonal deficiencies such as lack of pituitary or adrenal hormones.
                

                
*A personal blood glucose monitor cannot be used to diagnose reactive hypoglycemia.

Question: What to do for Hypoglycemia ?
Answer: Diabetes-related Hypoglycemia
                
- When people with diabetes think their blood glucose level is low, they should check it and treat the problem right away.  - To treat hypoglycemia, people should have a serving of a quick-fix food, wait 15 minutes, and check their blood glucose again. They should repeat the treatment until their blood glucose is 70 mg/dL or above.  - People at risk for hypoglycemia should keep quick-fix foods in the car, at workanywhere they spend time.  - People at risk for hypoglycemia should be careful when driving. They should check their blood glucose frequently and snack as needed to keep their level 70 mg/dL or above.
                
Hypoglycemia Unrelated to Diabetes
                
- In reactive hypoglycemia, symptoms occur within 4 hours of eating. People with reactive hypoglycemia are usually advised to follow a healthy eating plan recommended by a registered dietitian.  - Fasting hypoglycemia can be caused by certain medications, critical illnesses, hereditary enzyme or hormonal deficiencies, and some kinds of tumors. Treatment targets the underlying problem.

Question: What to do for Kidney Stones in Adults ?
Answer: - A kidney stone is a solid piece of material that forms in a kidney when substances that are normally found in the urine become highly concentrated.  - Kidney stones are one of the most common disorders of the urinary tract.  - Certain foods may promote stone formation in people who are susceptible, but scientists do not believe that eating any specific food causes stones to form in people who are not susceptible.  - People with kidney stones may have pain while urinating, see blood in the urine, or feel a sharp pain in the back or lower abdomen. However, people who have small stones that pass easily through the urinary tract may not have symptoms at all.  - To diagnose kidney stones, the health care provider will perform a physical exam and take a medical history. The health care provider may perform urine, blood, and imaging tests to complete the diagnosis.  - Treatment for kidney stones usually depends on their size and what they are made of, as well as whether they are causing pain or obstructing the urinary tract. Treatments may include shock wave lithotripsy, ureteroscopy, or percutaneous nephrolithotomy.  - Kidney stones may be prevented through changes in eating, diet, and nutrition and medications.

Question: What to do for Anemia in Chronic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: A health care provider may advise people with kidney disease who have anemia caused by iron, vitamin B12, or folic acid deficiencies to include sources of these nutrients in their diets. Some of these foods are high in sodium or phosphorus, which people with CKD should limit in their diet. Before making any dietary changes, people with CKD should talk with their health care provider or with a dietitian who specializes in helping people with kidney disease. A dietitian can help a person plan healthy meals.
                
Read more about nutrition for people with CKD on the National Kidney Disease Education Program website.
                
The following chart illustrates some good dietary sources of iron, vitamin B12, and folic acid.
                
Food    Serving Size    Iron    Vitamin B12    Folic Acid          Recommended Daily Value        18 mg    6 mcg    400 mcg        100 percent fortified breakfast cereal     cup (1 oz)    18 mg    6 mcg    394 mcg        beans, baked    1 cup (8 oz)    8 mg    0 mcg    37 mcg        beef, ground    3 oz    2 mg    2 mcg    8 mcg        beef liver    3 oz    5 mg    67 mcg    211 mcg        clams, fried    4 oz    3 mg    1 mcg    66 mcg        spinach, boiled    1 cup (3 oz)    2 mg    0 mcg    115 mcg        spinach, fresh    1 cup (1 oz)    1 mg    0 mcg    58 mcg        trout    3 oz    0 mg    5 mcg    16 mcg        tuna, canned    3 oz    1 mg    1 mcg    2 mcg

Question: What to do for Anemia in Chronic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: - Anemia is a condition in which the body has fewer red blood cells than normal. Red blood cells carry oxygen to tissues and organs throughout the body and enable them to use energy from food.  - Anemia commonly occurs in people with chronic kidney disease (CKD)the permanent, partial loss of kidney function. Most people who have total loss of kidney function, or kidney failure, have anemia.  - When kidneys are diseased or damaged, they do not make enough erythropoietin (EPO). As a result, the bone marrow makes fewer red blood cells, causing anemia.  - Other common causes of anemia in people with kidney disease include blood loss from hemodialysis and low levels of the following nutrients found in food:      - iron    - vitamin B12    - folic acid    - The first step in treating anemia is raising low iron levels.  - If blood tests indicate kidney disease as the most likely cause of anemia, treatment can include injections of a genetically engineered form of EPO.  - Many people with kidney disease need iron supplements and EPO to raise their red blood cell count to a level that will reduce the need for red blood cell transfusions.  - A health care provider may suggest vitamin B12 and folic acid supplements for some people with CKD and anemia.  - A health care provider may advise people with kidney disease who have anemia caused by iron, vitamin B12, or folic acid deficiencies to include sources of these nutrients in their diets.

Question: What to do for Lupus Nephritis ?
Answer: Eating, diet, and nutrition have not been shown to play a role in causing or preventing lupus nephritis. People with kidney disease that progresses may need to talk with a health care provider about changes they may need to make to their diet. People with lupus nephritis and high blood pressure may benefit from reducing sodium intake, often from salt. More information about nutrition in people with kidney disease is provided in the NIDDK health topics, Nutrition for Early Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults and Nutrition for Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults.

Question: What to do for Lupus Nephritis ?
Answer: - Lupus nephritis is kidney inflammation caused by systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE or lupus).  - The symptoms of lupus nephritis may include high blood pressure, foamy urine, and edema.  - Lupus nephritis is diagnosed through urine and blood tests and a kidney biopsy.  - Lupus nephritis is treated with medications that suppress the immune system, so it stops attacking and damaging the kidneys. Standard treatment includes a corticosteroid, usually prednisone, to reduce inflammation in the kidneys. An immunosuppressive medication, such as cyclophosphamide or mycophenolate mofetil, is typically used with prednisone.  - People with lupus nephritis that is causing high blood pressure may need to take medications that lower their blood pressure, which can also significantly slow the progression of kidney disease.  - In many cases, treatment is effective in completely or partially controlling lupus nephritis, resulting in few, if any, further complications. However, even with treatment, 10 to 30 percent of people with lupus nephritis develop kidney failure.

Question: What to do for Goodpasture Syndrome ?
Answer: Eating, diet, and nutrition have not been shown to play a role in causing or preventing Goodpasture syndrome.

Question: What to do for Goodpasture Syndrome ?
Answer: - Goodpasture syndrome is a pulmonary-renal syndrome, which is a group of acute illnesses involving the kidneys and lungs. Goodpasture syndrome includes all of the following conditions:      - glomerulonephritis    - the presence of anti-glomerular basement membrane (GBM) antibodies    - bleeding in the lungs    - Goodpasture syndrome is fatal unless quickly diagnosed and treated.  - People who smoke or use hair dyes appear to be at increased risk for this condition. Exposure to hydrocarbon fumes, metallic dust, and certain drugs may also raise a persons risk.  - The symptoms of Goodpasture syndrome may initially include fatigue, nausea, vomiting, and weakness. The lungs are usually affected before or at the same time as the kidneys, and symptoms can include shortness of breath and coughing, sometimes with blood. Symptoms that occur when the kidneys are affected include blood in the urine or foamy urine, swelling in the legs, and high blood pressure.  - A urinalysis, blood test, chest x ray, and kidney biopsy are used to diagnose Goodpasture syndrome.  - Goodpasture syndrome is usually treated with immunosuppressive medications, corticosteroid medications, and plasmapheresis.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Interstitial Cystitis/Painful Bladder Syndrome ?
Answer: - Bladder problems have many possible causes.  - Your doctor will need to do tests to find the cause of your bladder problems. If all the test results are normal, you may have IC/PBS.  - No one treatment option for IC/PBS works for everybody.  - Treatments for IC/PBS may include changing your diet and exercising.  - Medicines for IC/PBS may be taken by mouth or put directly into the bladder through a tube by a doctor.  - Nerve stimulation helps some people with IC/PBS.  - Surgery is a last resort for treating IC/PBS.

Question: What to do for Hematuria (Blood in the Urine) ?
Answer: Eating, diet, and nutrition have not been shown to play a role in causing or preventing hematuria.

Question: What to do for Hematuria (Blood in the Urine) ?
Answer: - Hematuria is blood in the urine.  - Most people with microscopic hematuria do not have symptoms. People with gross hematuria have urine that is pink, red, or cola-colored due to the presence of red blood cells (RBCs).  - Hematuria can be caused by menstruation, vigorous exercise, sexual activity, viral illness, trauma, or infection, such as a urinary tract infection (UTI). More serious causes of hematuria include      - cancer of the kidney or bladder    - inflammation of the kidney, urethra, bladder, or prostate    - polycystic kidney disease    - blood clots    - blood clotting disorders, such as hemophilia    - sickle cell disease    - When blood is visible in the urine or a dipstick test of the urine indicates the presence of RBCs, the urine is examined with a microscope to make an initial diagnosis of hematuria. The next step is to diagnose the cause of the hematuria.  - If a thorough medical history suggests a cause that does not require treatment, the urine should be tested again after 48 hours for the presence of RBCs. If two of three urine samples show too many RBCs when viewed with a microscope, more serious causes should be explored.  - One or more of the following tests may be ordered: urinalysis, blood test, biopsy, cytoscopy, and kidney imaging tests.  - Hematuria is treated by treating its underlying cause.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Erectile Dysfunction ?
Answer: To prevent ED, you should eat a healthy diet of whole-grain foods, fruits and vegetables, low-fat dairy foods, and lean meats. A diet that causes you to be overweight and have heart and blood vessel disease can also lead to ED. You should avoid foods high in fat and sodium, the main part of salt. You should also avoid smoking, drinking too much alcohol, or using illegal drugs.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Erectile Dysfunction ?
Answer: - Erectile dysfunction (ED) is when you cannot get or keep an erection firm enough to have sex. You may have ED if you      - can get an erection sometimes, though not every time    - can get an erection, yet it does not last long enough for sex    - are unable to get an erection at all    - An erection occurs when blood flow into the penis increases, making the penis larger and firmer. Hormones, blood vessels, nerves, and muscles all work together to cause an erection.  - ED often has more than one cause. Many diseases can damage nerves, arteries, and muscles.  - To find the cause of your ED, your doctor may      - take your medical and sexual history    - ask you questions about your mental health    - give you a physical exam    - test your blood    - give you a nighttime erection test    - perform an injection test    - perform a Doppler penile ultrasound    - Your doctor can offer you a number of treatments for ED. For many men, the answer is as simple as taking a pill. Other men have to try two or three options before they find a treatment that works for them.  - You can prevent many of the causes of ED by making healthy lifestyle choices. Following a healthy diet may help prevent ED. Quitting smoking and getting physical activity are also important ways to prevent ED.

Question: What to do for Celiac Disease ?
Answer: Eating, diet, and nutrition play a significant role in treating celiac disease. People with the disease should maintain a gluten-free diet by avoiding products that contain gluten. In other words, a person with celiac disease should not eat most grains, pasta, and cereal, and many processed foods.
                
People with celiac disease can eat a wellbalanced diet with a variety of foods. They can use potato, rice, soy, amaranth, quinoa, buckwheat, or bean flour instead of wheat flour. They can buy gluten-free bread, pasta, and other products from stores, or order products from special food companies. Meanwhile, "plain"meaning no additives or seasoningsmeat, fish, rice, fruits, and vegetables do not contain gluten, so people with celiac disease can eat these foods.
                
In the past, health care providers and dietitians advised people with celiac disease to avoid eating oats. Evidence suggests that most people with the disease can safely eat small amounts of oats, as long as the oats are not contaminated with wheat gluten during processing. People with celiac disease should talk with their health care team when deciding whether to include oats in their diet.
                
Eating out and shopping can be a challenge. Newly diagnosed people and their families may find support groups helpful as they adjust to a new approach to eating. People with celiac disease should
                
- read food labelsespecially canned, frozen, and processed foodsfor ingredients that contain gluten  - avoid ingredients such as hydrolyzed vegetable protein, also called lecithin or soy lecithin  - ask restaurant servers and chefs about ingredients and food preparation inquire whether a gluten-free menu is available  - ask a dinner or party host about glutenfree options before attending a social gathering
                
Foods that are packaged as gluten-free tend to cost more than the same foods containing gluten. People following a gluten-free diet may find that naturally gluten-free foods are less expensive. With practice, looking for gluten can become second nature.
                
The Gluten-free Diet: Some Examples
                
The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics has published recommendations for a glutenfree diet. The following chart illustrates these recommendations. This list is not complete, so people with celiac disease should discuss gluten-free food choices with a dietitian or health care professional who specializes in celiac disease. People with celiac disease should always read food ingredient lists carefully to make sure the food does not contain gluten.
                
Table 1. Gluten-free foods and foods that contain gluten
                
Foods and Ingredients That Contain Gluten         barley rye triticale (a cross between wheat and rye) wheat, including          - including einkorn, emmer, spelt, kamut      - wheat starch, wheat bran, wheat germ, cracked wheat, hydrolyzed wheat protein        brewer's yeast dextrin malt (unless a gluten-free source is named, such as corn malt) modified food starch oats (not labeled gluten-free) starch         Other Wheat Products That Contain Gluten         bromated flour durum flour enriched flour farina    graham flour phosphated flour plain flour    self-rising flour semolina white flour        Processed Foods That May Contain Wheat, Barley, or Rye*         bouillon cubes brown rice syrup candy chewing gum chips/potato chips cold cuts, hot dogs, salami, sausage    communion wafers french fries gravies imitation fish matzo and matzo meal rice mixes    sauces seasoned tortilla chips self-basting turkey soups soy sauce vegetables in sauce        *Most of these foods can be found gluten-free. When in doubt, check with the food manufacturer.         Food Products and Ingredients Made from Barley*         ale beer malt malt beverages    malted milk malt extract malt syrup malt vinegar    other fermented beverages porter stout        *People should only consume these foods if they are labeled gluten-freesuch as sorghum-based beeror they list a grain source other than barley, wheat, or ryesuch as corn malt.         Foods That Do Not Contain Gluten         amaranth arrowroot buckwheat cassava corn flax    legumes lentils millet nuts oats (labeled gluten-free) potatoes    quinoa rice sago seeds sorghum soy    tapioca tef (or teff) wild rice yucca
                

                
Food Labeling Requirements   On August 2, 2013, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) published a new regulation defining the term "glutenfree" for voluntary food labeling. This new federal definition standardizes the meaning of "gluten-free" foods regulated by the FDA. Foods regulated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, including meat and egg products, are not subject to this regulation. The regulation requires that any food with the term "gluten-free" on the label must meet all of the requirements of the definition, including that the food should contain fewer than 20 parts per million of gluten. The FDA rule also requires foods with the claims "no gluten," "free of gluten," and "without gluten" to meet the definition for "gluten-free."   If a food that is labeled "gluten-free" includes "wheat" on the ingredients list or "contains wheat" after the list, the following statement must be included on the label: "The wheat has been processed to allow this food to meet the Food and Drug Administration requirements for gluten-free food." If this statement is included, people with celiac disease may consume foods labeled "gluten-free."

Question: What to do for Celiac Disease ?
Answer: - Celiac disease is an immune disorder in which people cannot tolerate gluten because it damages the lining of their small intestine and prevents absorption of nutrients.  - When people with celiac disease eat foods or use products containing gluten, their immune system responds by damaging or destroying villithe tiny, fingerlike projections on the inner lining of the small intestine.  - A person may experience digestive signs and symptoms, or symptoms in other parts of the body.  - Recognizing celiac disease can be difficult because some of its symptoms are similar to those of other diseases and conditions.  - Dermatitis herpetiformis is a chronic, itchy, blistering skin rashusually on the elbows, knees, buttocks, back, or scalpthat affects about 5 to 10 percent of people with celiac disease.  - Signs and symptoms of celiac disease vary from person to person because of numerous factors.  - Some people with celiac disease have no signs or symptoms; however, they can still develop complications of the disease over time. Long-term complications include malnutrition, liver diseases, intestinal cancer, and lymphoma.  - A health care provider diagnoses celiac disease with a medical and family history, a physical exam, blood tests, an intestinal biopsy, and a skin biopsy.  - Since celiac disease sometimes runs in families, blood relatives of people with celiac disease should talk with their health care provider about their chances of getting the disease.  - Most people with celiac disease have a significant improvement in symptoms when they follow a gluten-free diet.  - Health care providers typically refer people to a dietitian who specializes in treating people with the disease.  - The dietitian will give the person instructions for how to read food and product labels and identify ingredients that contain gluten.  - Medications, supplements, and other products may also contain a hidden source of gluten.  - People with celiac disease can eat a wellbalanced diet with a variety of foods.

Question: What to do for Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your nervous system healthy ?
Answer: You can keep your nervous system healthy by taking these steps:
                
- Eat healthy meals and follow the meal plan that you and your doctor or dietitian have worked out.  - If you drink alcoholic beverages, limit your intake to no more than one drink per day for women and two drinks per day for men. Drinking too many alcoholic beverages can make nerve damage worse.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, What I need to know about Eating and Diabetes.

Question: What to do for Hemochromatosis ?
Answer: Iron is an essential nutrient found in many foods. Healthy people usually absorb less than 10 percent of iron in the food they eat.6 People with hemochromatosis absorb up to 30 percent of that iron.6 People with hemochromatosis can help prevent iron overload by
                
- eating only moderate amounts of iron-rich foods, such as red meat and organ meat  - avoiding supplements that contain iron  - avoiding supplements that contain vitamin C, which increases iron absorption
                
People with hemochromatosis can take steps to help prevent liver damage, including
                
- limiting the amount of alcoholic beverages they drink because alcohol increases their chance of cirrhosis and liver cancer  - avoiding alcoholic beverages entirely if they already have cirrhosis

Question: What to do for Hemochromatosis ?
Answer: - Hemochromatosis is the most common form of iron overload disease. Too much iron in the body causes hemochromatosis.  - Inherited genetic defects cause primary hemochromatosis.  - Primary hemochromatosis mainly affects Caucasians of Northern European descent.  - A person with hemochromatosis may notice one or more of the following symptoms: joint pain; fatigue, or feeling tired; unexplained weight loss; abnormal bronze or gray skin color; abdominal pain; and loss of sex drive. Not everyone with hemochromatosis will develop these symptoms.  - Without treatment, iron may build up in the organs and cause complications, including cirrhosis, diabetes, irregular heart rhythms or weakening of the heart muscle, arthritis, and erectile dysfunction.  - If a health care provider diagnoses and treats the iron overload caused by hemochromatosis before organ damage has occurred, a person can live a normal, healthy life.  - Experts recommend testing for hemochromatosis in people who have symptoms, complications, or a family history of the disease.  - Health care providers treat hemochromatosis by drawing blood. This process is called phlebotomy.

Question: What to do for Adrenal Insufficiency and Addison's Disease ?
Answer: Some people with Addisons disease who are aldosterone deficient can benefit from following a diet rich in sodium. A health care provider or a dietitian can give specific recommendations on appropriate sodium sources and daily sodium guidelines if necessary.
                
Corticosteroid treatment is linked to an increased risk of osteoporosisa condition in which the bones become less dense and more likely to fracture. People who take corticosteroids should protect their bone health by consuming enough dietary calcium and vitamin D. A health care provider or a dietitian can give specific recommendations on appropriate daily calcium intake based upon age and suggest the best types of calcium supplements, if necessary.

Question: What to do for Adrenal Insufficiency and Addison's Disease ?
Answer: - Adrenal insufficiency is an endocrine, or hormonal, disorder that occurs when the adrenal glands do not produce enough of certain hormones.   - Addisons disease, the common term for primary adrenal insufficiency, occurs when the adrenal glands are damaged and cannot produce enough of the adrenal hormone cortisol. The adrenal hormone aldosterone may also be lacking.   - Secondary adrenal insufficiency occurs when the pituitary gland fails to produce enough adrenocorticotropin (ACTH), a hormone that stimulates the adrenal glands to produce cortisol. If ACTH output is too low, cortisol production drops.   - The most common symptoms of adrenal insufficiency are chronic fatigue, muscle weakness, loss of appetite, weight loss, and abdominal pain. The slowly progressing symptoms are often ignored until a stressful event, such as surgery, a severe injury, an illness, or pregnancy, causes them to worsen.   - If not treated, an adrenal crisis can cause death.   - A diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency is confirmed through hormonal blood and urine tests. Imaging studies of the adrenal and pituitary glands can be useful in helping to establish the cause.   - Adrenal insufficiency is treated by replacing, or substituting, the hormones that the adrenal glands are not making.   - Problems can occur in people with adrenal insufficiency who are undergoing surgery, suffer a severe injury, have an illness, or are pregnant. These conditions place additional stress on the body, and people with adrenal insufficiency may need additional treatment to respond and recover.   - People with adrenal insufficiency should always carry identification stating their condition, adrenal insufficiency, in case of an emergency, as well as the supplies necessary to administer an emergency corticosteroid injection.

Question: What to do for Hypothyroidism ?
Answer: Experts recommend that people eat a balanced diet to obtain most nutrients. More information about diet and nutrition can be found on the National Agricultural Library website at www.nutrition.gov.
                
Dietary Supplements
                
Iodine is an essential mineral for the thyroid. However, people with autoimmune thyroid disease may be sensitive to harmful side effects from iodine. Taking iodine drops or eating foods containing large amounts of iodinesuch as seaweed, dulse, or kelpmay cause or worsen hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism. More information about iodine can be found in the National Library of Medicine fact sheet Iodine in diet, available at www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/002421.htm.
                
Women need more iodine when they are pregnantabout 250 micrograms a day because the baby gets iodine from the mothers diet. In the United States, about 7 percent of pregnant women may not get enough iodine in their diet or through prenatal vitamins.3 Choosing iodized salt salt supplemented with iodineover plain salt and prenatal vitamins containing iodine will ensure this need is met.
                
To help ensure coordinated and safe care, people should discuss their use of dietary supplements, such as iodine, with their health care provider. Tips for talking with health care providers are available through the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health.

Question: What to do for Hypothyroidism ?
Answer: - Hypothyroidism is a disorder that occurs when the thyroid gland does not make enough thyroid hormone to meet the bodys needs. Thyroid hormone regulates metabolism. Without enough thyroid hormone, many of the bodys functions slow down.  - Hypothyroidism has several causes, including      - Hashimotos disease    - thyroiditis    - congenital hypothyroidism    - surgical removal of part or all of the thyroid    - radiation treatment of the thyroid    - some medications    - Hypothyroidism has many symptoms that can vary from person to person. Some common symptoms of hypothyroidism are fatigue, weight gain, cold intolerance, constipation, impaired fertility, and depression.  - Women are much more likely than men to develop hypothyroidism.  - Women with hypothyroidism should discuss their condition with their health care provider before becoming pregnant.  - Hypothyroidism can almost always be completely controlled with synthetic thyroxine, as long as the recommended dose is taken every day as instructed.

Question: What to do for Urinary Tract Infection In Adults ?
Answer: - Most urinary tract infections (UTIs) arise from one type of bacteria, Escherichia coli (E. coli), which normally lives in the bowel.  - Symptoms of a UTI in adults may include the following:      - a frequent and intense urge to urinate    - a painful, burning feeling in the bladder or urethra during urination    - feeling tired, shaky, and weak    - muscle aches    - abdominal pain    - only small amounts of urine passed, despite a strong urge to urinate    - cloudy, dark, or bloody urine or urine that has a foul smell    - pain in the back or side below the ribs    - nausea and vomiting    - Fever may indicate a kidney or prostate infection.  - Because bacteria can be found in the urine of healthy individuals, a UTI is diagnosed based both on symptoms and a laboratory test.  - UTIs are treated with bacteria-fighting medications called antibiotics or antimicrobials.

Question: What to do for Diagnosis of Diabetes and Prediabetes ?
Answer: - Tests used for diagnosing diabetes and prediabetes include the A1C testfor type 2 diabetes and prediabetesthe fasting plasma glucose (FPG) test, and the oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). Another blood test, the random plasma glucose (RPG) test, is sometimes used to diagnose diabetes when symptoms are present during a regular health checkup.  - Anyone age 45 or older should consider getting tested for diabetes or prediabetes. People younger than 45 should consider testing if they are overweight or obese and have one or more additional risk factors for diabetes.  - If results of testing are normal, testing should be repeated at least every 3 years. Health care providers may recommend more frequent testing depending on initial results and risk status.  - People whose test results indicate they have prediabetes may be tested again in 1 year and should take steps to prevent or delay type 2 diabetes.  - Many people with prediabetes develop type 2 diabetes within 10 years.  - Modest weight loss and moderate physical activity can help people with prediabetes delay or prevent type 2 diabetes.

Question: What to do for Mntriers Disease ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing Mntriers disease. In some cases, a health care provider may prescribe a high-protein diet to offset the loss of protein due to Mntriers disease. Some people with severe malnutrition may require IV nutrition, which is called total parenteral nutrition (TPN). TPN is a method of providing an IV liquid food mixture through a special tube in the chest.

Question: What to do for Mntriers Disease ?
Answer: - Mntriers disease causes the ridges along the inside of the stomach wallcalled rugaeto enlarge, forming giant folds in the stomach lining. The rugae enlarge because of an overgrowth of mucous cells in the stomach wall.  - Scientists are unsure about what causes Mntriers disease; however, researchers think that most people acquire, rather than inherit, the disease.  - Mntriers disease is rare. The disease is more common in men than in women.  - The most common symptom of Mntriers disease is pain in the upper middle part of the abdomen.  - Health care providers base the diagnosis of Mntriers disease on a combination of symptoms, lab findings, findings on upper gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy, and stomach biopsy results.  - Treatment may include medications, intravenous (IV) protein, blood transfusions, and surgery.

Question: What to do for Inguinal Hernia ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing inguinal hernias. A person with an inguinal hernia may be able to prevent symptoms by eating high-fiber foods. Fresh fruits, vegetables, and whole grains are high in fiber and may help prevent the constipation and straining that cause some of the painful symptoms of a hernia.
                
The surgeon will provide instructions on eating, diet, and nutrition after inguinal hernia surgery. Most people drink liquids and eat a light diet the day of the operation and then resume their usual diet the next day.

Question: What to do for Inguinal Hernia ?
Answer: - An inguinal hernia happens when contents of the abdomenusually fat or part of the small intestinebulge through a weak area in the lower abdominal wall.  - A defect in the abdominal wall that is present at birth causes an indirect inguinal hernia.  - Direct inguinal hernias usually occur only in male adults as aging and stress or strain weaken the abdominal muscles around the inguinal canal. Females rarely form this type of inguinal hernia.  - The first sign of an inguinal hernia is a small bulge on one or, rarely, on both sides of the grointhe area just above the groin crease between the lower abdomen and the thigh.  - An incarcerated hernia happens when part of the fat or small intestine from inside the abdomen becomes stuck in the groin or scrotum and cannot go back into the abdomen.  - When an incarcerated hernia is not treated, the blood supply to the small intestine may become obstructed, causing strangulation of the small intestine.  - People who have symptoms of an incarcerated or a strangulated hernia should seek emergency medical help immediately. A strangulated hernia is a life-threatening condition.  - Repair of an inguinal hernia via surgery is the only treatment for inguinal hernias and can prevent incarceration and strangulation.

Question: What to do for Insulin Resistance and Prediabetes ?
Answer: Adopting healthy eating habits can help people lose a modest amount of weight and reverse insulin resistance. Experts encourage people to slowly adopt healthy eating habits that they can maintain, rather than trying extreme weight-loss solutions. People may need to get help from a dietitian or join a weight-loss program for support.
                
In general, people should lose weight by choosing healthy foods, controlling portions, eating less fat, and increasing physical activity. People are better able to lose weight and keep it off when they learn how to adapt their favorite foods to a healthy eating plan.
                
The DASH (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) eating plan, developed by the NIH, has been shown to be effective in decreasing insulin resistance when combined with weight loss and physical activity. More information on DASH is available at www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/health-topics/topics/dash.
                
The U.S. Dietary Guidelines for Americans also offers healthy eating advice and tools for changing eating habits at www.choosemyplate.gov.
                
Dietary Supplements
                
Vitamin D studies show a link between people's ability to maintain healthy blood glucose levels and having enough vitamin D in their blood. However, studies to determine the proper vitamin D levels for preventing diabetes are ongoing; no special recommendations have been made about vitamin D levels or supplements for people with prediabetes.
                
Currently, the Institute of Medicine (IOM), the agency that recommends supplementation levels based on current science, provides the following guidelines for daily vitamin D intake:
                
- People ages 1 to 70 years may require 600 International Units (IUs).  - People ages 71 and older may require as much as 800 IUs.
                
The IOM also recommended that no more than 4,000 IUs of vitamin D be taken per day.
                
To help ensure coordinated and safe care, people should discuss use of complementary and alternative medicine practices, including the use of dietary supplements, with their health care provider.
                
More information about using dietary supplements to help with diabetes is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Complementary and Alternative Medical Therapies for Diabetes.
                

                
Physical Activity
                
Regular physical activity tackles several risk factors at once. Regular physical activity helps the body use insulin properly.
                
Regular physical activity also helps a person
                
- lose weight  - control blood glucose levels  - control blood pressure  - control cholesterol levels
                
People in the DPP who were physically active for 30 minutes a day, 5 days a week, reduced their risk of type 2 diabetes. Many chose brisk walking as their physical activity.
                
Most people should aim for at least 30 minutes of exercise most days of the week. For best results, people should do both aerobic activities, which use large muscle groups and make the heart beat faster, and muscle strengthening activities.
                
Aerobic activities include brisk walking, climbing stairs, swimming, dancing, and other activities that increase the heart rate.
                
Muscle strengthening activities include lifting weights and doing sit-ups or push-ups.
                
People who haven't been physically active recently should talk with their health care provider about which activities are best for them and have a checkup before starting an exercise program.
                
Not Smoking
                
Those who smoke should quit. A health care provider can help people find ways to quit smoking. Studies show that people who get help have a better chance of quitting.
                
For more information about how to reverse insulin resistance and prediabetes with diet and increased physical activity, see the following National Diabetes Education Program publications at www.yourdiabetesinfo.org:    - Get Real! You Don't Have to Knock Yourself Out to Prevent Diabetes!   - More Than 50 Ways to Prevent Diabetes   - Small Steps. Big Rewards. Your Game Plan to Prevent Type 2 Diabetes.
                
Medication
                
The medication metformin is recommended for treatment of some individuals at very high risk of developing type 2 diabetes. In the DPP, metformin was shown to be most effective in preventing or delaying the development of type 2 diabetes in younger, heavier people with prediabetes. In general, metformin is recommend for those who are younger than age 60 and have
                
- combined IGT and IFG  - A1C above 6 percent  - low HDL cholesterol  - elevated triglycerides  - a parent or sibling with diabetes  - a BMI of at least 35
                
Metformin also lowers the risk of diabetes in women who have had gestational diabetes. People at high risk should ask their health care provider if they should take metformin to prevent type 2 diabetes.
                
Several medications have been shown to reduce type 2 diabetes risk to varying degrees, but the only medication recommended by the ADA for type 2 diabetes prevention is metformin. Other medications that have delayed diabetes have side effects or haven't shown long-lasting benefits. No medication, including metformin, is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to treat insulin resistance or prediabetes or to prevent type 2 diabetes.

Question: What to do for Insulin Resistance and Prediabetes ?
Answer: - Insulin is a hormone that helps cells throughout the body absorb glucose and use it for energy. Insulin resistance is a condition in which the body produces insulin but does not use it effectively.  - Insulin resistance increases the risk of developing type 2 diabetes and prediabetes.  - The major contributors to insulin resistance are excess weight, especially around the waist, and physical inactivity.  - Prediabetes is a condition in which blood glucose or A1C levelswhich reflect average blood glucose levelsare higher than normal but not high enough for a diagnosis of diabetes.  - The Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) study and its follow-up study, the Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes Study (DPPOS), confirmed that people with prediabetes can often prevent or delay diabetes if they lose a modest amount of weight by cutting fat and calorie intake and increasing physical activity.  - By losing weight and being more physically active, people can reverse insulin resistance and prediabetes, thus preventing or delaying type 2 diabetes.  - People with insulin resistance and prediabetes can decrease their risk for diabetes by eating a healthy diet and reaching and maintaining a healthy weight, increasing physical activity, not smoking, and taking medication.  - The DPP showed the diabetes medication metformin to be most effective in preventing or delaying the development of type 2 diabetes in younger and heavier people with prediabetes and women who have had gestational diabetes.

Question: What to do for Amyloidosis and Kidney Disease ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing primary amyloidosis of the kidneys or dialysis-related amyloidosis. People with nephrotic syndrome may make dietary changes such as
                
- limiting dietary sodium, often from salt, to help reduce edema and lower blood pressure  - decreasing liquid intake to help reduce edema and lower blood pressure  - eating a diet low in saturated fat and cholesterol to help control more-than-normal amounts of fats and cholesterol in the blood
                
Health care providers may recommend that people with kidney disease eat moderate or reduced amounts of protein. Proteins break down into waste products that the kidneys filter from the blood. Eating more protein than the body needs may burden the kidneys and cause kidney function to decline faster. However, protein intake that is too low may lead to malnutrition, a condition that occurs when the body does not get enough nutrients.
                
People with kidney disease on a restricted protein diet should receive blood tests that can show low nutrient levels. People with primary amyloidosis of the kidneys or dialysis-related amyloidosis should talk with a health care provider about dietary restrictions to best manage their individual needs.

Question: What to do for Amyloidosis and Kidney Disease ?
Answer: - Amyloidosis is a rare disease that occurs when amyloid proteins are deposited in tissues and organs.  - Primary amyloidosis and dialysis-related amyloidosis are the types of amyloidosis that can affect the kidneys.  - The most common sign of primary amyloidosis of the kidneys is nephrotic syndrome.  - The signs of nephrotic syndrome include      - albuminuriaan elevated amount of albumin in the urine. A person with nephrotic syndrome excretes more than half a teaspoon of albumin per day.    - hyperlipidemiaa condition in which a persons blood has more-than-normal amounts of fats and cholesterol.    - edemaswelling, typically in a persons legs, feet, or ankles and less often in the hands or face.    - hypoalbuminemiaa condition in which a persons blood has less-than-normal amounts of albumin.    - Other signs and symptoms of primary amyloidosis may include      - fatigue, or feeling tired    - shortness of breath    - low blood pressure    - numbness, tingling, or a burning sensation in the hands or feet    - weight loss    - The symptoms of dialysis-related amyloidosis may include      - pain, stiffness, and fluid in the joints.    - abnormal, fluid-containing sacs, called cysts, in some bones.    - carpal tunnel syndrome, caused by unusual buildup of amyloid proteins in the wrists. The symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome include numbness or tingling, sometimes associated with muscle weakness, in the fingers and hands.    - A health care provider diagnoses primary amyloidosis of the kidneys with      - a medical and family history    - a physical exam    - urinalysis    - blood tests    - a kidney biopsy    - A health care provider diagnoses dialysis-related amyloidosis with      - urinalysis    - blood tests    - imaging tests    - A health care provider treats primary amyloidosis of the kidneys with the following:      - medication therapy, including chemotherapy    - a stem cell transplant    - treating other conditions    - A health care provider treats dialysis-related amyloidosis with      - medication therapy    - newer, more effective hemodialysis filters    - surgery    - a kidney transplant

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Living with Kidney Failure ?
Answer: Eating the right foods can help you feel better when you are on dialysis or have a kidney transplant. Staying healthy with kidney failure requires watching how much of these elements are included in your diet:
                
- Protein is in many foods you eat. Protein is in foods from animals and plants. Most diets include both types of protein. Protein provides the building blocks that maintain and repair muscles, organs, and other parts of the body. Too much protein can cause waste to build up in your blood, making your kidneys work harder. However, if you are on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis, you need lots of protein to replace the protein that dialysis removes.  - Phosphorus is a mineral that keeps your bones healthy. Phosphorus also keeps blood vessels and muscles working. This mineral is found naturally in foods rich in protein, such as meat, poultry, fish, nuts, beans, and dairy products. Phosphorus is also added to many processed foods. You need phosphorus to turn food into energy; however, too much can cause your bones to weaken.  - Water is in drinks and in foods such as fruits, vegetables, ice cream, gelatin, soup, and popsicles. Your body needs water; however, too much can cause fluid to build up in your body and make your heart work harder.  - Sodium is a part of salt. You can find sodium in many canned, packaged, and fast foods and in seasonings and meats. You need sodium to help control the amount of fluid in your body; however, too much can cause high blood pressure.  - Potassium is a mineral that helps your nerves and muscles work the right way. Potassium is found in fruits and vegetables such as oranges, bananas, tomatoes, and potatoes. You need potassium for healthy nerves and brain cells; however, too much can make your heartbeat irregular.  - Calories are found in all foods and are especially high in oils and sugary foods. You need calories for energy; however, too many can cause weight gain and high blood sugar.
                
Talk with your clinics renal dietitian to find a meal plan that works for you. Each treatment requires a different diet. If you are on hemodialysis, you have to stay away from foods such as potatoes and oranges because they have lots of potassium. If you are on peritoneal dialysis, eating potassium is fine. Instead, you may need to watch your calories. Your food needs will also depend on your weight and activity level.
                
Changing your diet may be hard at first. Eating the right foods will help you feel better. You will have more strength and energy. Having more energy will help you live a fuller, healthier life. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Eat Right to Feel Right on Hemodialysis.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Living with Kidney Failure ?
Answer: - Kidney failure means your kidneys no longer work well enough to do their job.  - Learning about treatments for kidney failure will help you choose the one that best fits your lifestyle.  - Many people with kidney failure continue to work.  - Physical activity is an important part of staying healthy when you have kidney failure.  - You can help prevent relatives from having kidney failure by talking with them about their risk.  - Eating the right foods can help you feel better when you are on dialysis or have a kidney transplant.

Question: What to do for Diverticular Disease ?
Answer: The Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2010, recommends a dietary fiber intake of 14 grams per 1,000 calories consumed. For instance, for a 2,000-calorie diet, the fiber recommendation is 28 grams per day. The amount of fiber in a food is listed on the foods nutrition facts label. Some of the best sources of fiber include fruits; vegetables, particularly starchy ones; and whole grains. A health care provider or dietitian can help a person learn how to add more high-fiber foods into the diet.
                
Fiber-rich Foods        Beans, cereals, and breads    Amount of fiber        1/2 cup of navy beans    9.5 grams        1/2 cup of kidney beans    8.2 grams        1/2 cup of black beans    7.5 grams        Whole-grain cereal, cold        1/2 cup of All-Bran    9.6 grams        3/4 cup of Total    2.4 grams        3/4 cup of Post Bran Flakes    5.3 grams        1 packet of whole-grain cereal, hot (oatmeal, Wheatena)    3.0 grams        1 whole-wheat English muffin    4.4 grams        Fruits        1 medium apple, with skin    3.3 grams        1 medium pear, with skin    4.3 grams        1/2 cup of raspberries    4.0 grams        1/2 cup of stewed prunes    3.8 grams        Vegetables        1/2 cup of winter squash    2.9 grams         1 medium sweet potato, with skin    4.8 grams        1/2 cup of green peas    4.4 grams        1 medium potato, with skin    3.8 grams        1/2 cup of mixed vegetables    4.0 grams        1 cup of cauliflower    2.5 grams        1/2 cup of spinach    3.5 grams        1/2 cup of turnip greens    2.5 grams
                
Scientists now believe that people with diverticular disease do not need to eliminate certain foods from their diet. In the past, health care providers recommended that people with diverticular disease avoid nuts, popcorn, and sunflower, pumpkin, caraway, and sesame seeds because they thought food particles could enter, block, or irritate the diverticula. However, recent data suggest that these foods are not harmful.5 The seeds in tomatoes, zucchini, cucumbers, strawberries, and raspberries, as well as poppy seeds, are also fine to eat. Nonetheless, people with diverticular disease may differ in the amounts and types of foods that worsen their symptoms.

Question: What to do for Diverticular Disease ?
Answer: - Diverticular disease is a condition that occurs when a person has problems from small pouches, or sacs, that have formed and pushed outward through weak spots in the colon wall. The problems that occur with diverticular disease include diverticulitis and diverticular bleeding.  - When a person has diverticula that do not cause diverticulitis or diverticular bleeding, the condition is called diverticulosis.  - Scientists are not certain what causes diverticulosis and diverticular disease.  - Although diverticular disease is generally thought to be a condition found in older adults, it is becoming more common in people younger than age 50, most of whom are male.  - Health care providers often find diverticulosis during a routine x ray or a colonoscopy, a test used to look inside the rectum and entire colon to screen for colon cancer or polyps or to evaluate the source of rectal bleeding.  - To diagnose diverticular disease, a health care provider may schedule one or more of the following tests: blood test; computerized tomography (CT) scan; lower gastrointestinal (GI) series; colonoscopy.  - A health care provider may treat the symptoms of diverticulosis with a high-fiber diet or fiber supplements, medications, and possibly probiotics.  - Diverticular bleeding is rare. Bleeding can be severe; however, it may stop by itself and not require treatment. If the bleeding does not stop, abdominal surgery with a colon resection may be necessary.  - Diverticulitis with mild symptoms and no complications usually requires a person to rest, take oral antibiotics, and be on a liquid diet for a period of time.  - Diverticulitis can attack suddenly and cause complications, such as an abscess, a perforation, peritonitis, a fistula, or intestinal obstruction. These complications need to be treated to prevent them from getting worse and causing serious illness.

Question: What to do for Intestinal Pseudo-obstruction ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing intestinal pseudo-obstruction. Following special diets usually does not help improve the disorder. However, eating frequent, small meals with pureed foods or liquids may ease digestion. Vitamin and trace mineral supplements may help a person who is malnourished.

Question: What to do for Intestinal Pseudo-obstruction ?
Answer: - Intestinal pseudo-obstruction is a rare condition with symptoms that resemble those caused by a blockage, or obstruction, of the intestines, also called the bowel. However, when a health care provider examines the intestines, no blockage exists. Instead, the symptoms are due to nerve or muscle problems that affect the movement of food, fluid, and air through the intestines.  - Intestinal pseudo-obstruction symptoms may include abdominal swelling or bloating, also called distension; abdominal pain; nausea; vomiting; constipation; and diarrhea. Over time, the condition can cause malnutrition, bacterial overgrowth in the intestines, and weight loss.  - To diagnose intestinal pseudo-obstruction, a health care provider may suggest the person consult a gastroenterologista doctor who specializes in digestive diseases. A health care provider will perform a physical exam; take a complete medical history, imaging studies, and a biopsy; and perform blood tests. A health care provider may order other tests to confirm the diagnosis.  - A health care provider will treat intestinal pseudo-obstruction with nutritional support, medications, and, in some cases, decompression. Rarely, a person will need surgery. If an illness, a medication, or both cause intestinal pseudo-obstruction, a health care provider will treat the underlying illness, stop the medication, or do both. A health care provider may recommend small intestine transplantation when all other treatments have failed.

Question: What to do for Acromegaly ?
Answer: - Acromegaly is a hormonal disorder that results from too much growth hormone (GH) in the body.  - In most people with acromegaly, a benign tumor of the pituitary gland produces excess GH.  - Common features of acromegaly include abnormal growth of the hands and feet; bone growth in the face that leads to a protruding lower jaw and brow and an enlarged nasal bone; joint aches; thick, coarse, oily skin; and enlarged lips, nose, and tongue.  - Acromegaly can cause sleep apnea, fatigue and weakness, headaches, impaired vision, menstrual abnormalities in women, and erectile dysfunction in men.  - Acromegaly is diagnosed through a blood test. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the pituitary is then used to locate and detect the size of the tumor causing GH overproduction.  - The first line of treatment is usually surgical removal of the tumor. Medication or radiation may be used instead of or in addition to surgery.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Cirrhosis ?
Answer: - Cirrhosis is scarring of the liver. Scar tissue replaces healthy liver tissue.  - Some common causes of cirrhosis include heavy alcohol use, hepatitis infections, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.  - In the early stages of cirrhosis, you may have no symptoms. As the disease gets worse, cirrhosis can cause serious problems.  - Once you have cirrhosis, nothing can make all the scar tissue go away. But treatment can prevent cirrhosis from getting worse.  - If too much scar tissue forms and your liver fails, you will need a liver transplant.  - You can take steps to prevent cirrhosis or keep it from getting worse.

Question: What to do for Monogenic Forms of Diabetes: Neonatal Diabetes Mellitus and Maturity-onset Diabetes of the Young ?
Answer: - Mutations in single genes can cause rare forms of diabetes.  - Genetic testing can identify many forms of monogenic diabetes.  - A physician evaluates whether genetic testing is appropriate.  - A correct diagnosis aided by genetic testing can lead to optimal treatment.  - Recent research results show that people with certain forms of monogenic diabetes can be treated with oral diabetes medications instead of insulin injections.

Question: What to do for Gallstones ?
Answer: Factors related to eating, diet, and nutrition that increase the risk of gallstones include
                
- obesity   - rapid weight loss   - diets high in calories and refi ned carbohydrates and low in fi ber
                
People can decrease their risk of gallstones by maintaining a healthy weight through proper diet and nutrition.
                
Ursodiol can help prevent gallstones in people who rapidly lose weight through low-calorie diets or bariatric surgery. People should talk with their health care provider or dietitian about what diet is right for them.

Question: What to do for Gallstones ?
Answer: - Gallstones are hard particles that develop in the gallbladder.  - Imbalances in the substances that make up bile cause gallstones. Gallstones may form if bile contains too much cholesterol, too much bilirubin, or not enough bile salts. Scientists do not fully understand why these imbalances occur.   - Women, people over age 40, people with a family history of gallstones, American Indians, and Mexican Americans have a higher risk of developing gallstones.   - Many people with gallstones do not have symptoms. Gallstones that do not cause symptoms are called asymptomatic, or silent, gallstones.  - If gallstones block the bile ducts, pressure increases in the gallbladder, causing a gallbladder attack.  - Gallbladder attacks often follow heavy meals, and they usually occur in the evening or during the night.  - Gallstone symptoms may be similar to those of other conditions.   - If gallstones are not causing symptoms, treatment is usually not needed. However, if a person has a gallbladder attack or other symptoms, a health care provider will usually recommend treatment.   - The usual treatment for gallstones is surgery to remove the gallbladder. If a person cannot undergo surgery, nonsurgical treatments may be used to dissolve cholesterol gallstones. A health care provider may use endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) to remove stones in people who cannot undergo surgery or to remove stones from the common bile duct in people who are about to have gallbladder removal surgery.   - The gallbladder is not an essential organ, which means a person can live normally without a gallbladder. Once the gallbladder is removed, bile  flows out of the liver through the hepatic and common bile ducts and directly into the duodenum, instead of being stored in the gallbladder.

Question: What to do for Microscopic Colitis: Collagenous Colitis and Lymphocytic Colitis ?
Answer: To help reduce symptoms, a health care provider may recommend the following dietary changes:
                
- avoid foods and drinks that contain caffeine or artificial sugars  - drink plenty of liquids to prevent dehydration during episodes of diarrhea  - eat a milk-free diet if the person is also lactose intolerant  - eat a gluten-free diet
                
People should talk with their health care provider or dietitian about what type of diet is right for them.
                
Surgery
                
When the symptoms of microscopic colitis are severe and medications arent effective, a gastroenterologist may recommend surgery to remove the colon. Surgery is a rare treatment for microscopic colitis. The gastroenterologist will exclude other causes of symptoms before considering surgery.

Question: What to do for Microscopic Colitis: Collagenous Colitis and Lymphocytic Colitis ?
Answer: - Microscopic colitis is an inflammation of the colon that a health care provider can see only with a microscope.  - The two types of microscopic colitis are collagenous colitis and lymphocytic colitis.  - The exact cause of microscopic colitis is unknown.  - Microscopic colitis is most common in females age 50 years or older.  - The most common symptom of microscopic colitis is chronic, watery, nonbloody diarrhea.  - A pathologista doctor who specializes in diagnosing diseasesdiagnoses microscopic colitis based on the findings of multiple biopsies taken throughout the colon.  - Treatment depends on the severity of symptoms.  - The gastroenterologist may prescribe medications to help control symptoms.  - Medications are almost always effective in treating microscopic colitis.  - The gastroenterologist may recommend eating, diet, and nutrition changes.

Question: What to do for Fecal Incontinence ?
Answer: Dietary changes that may improve fecal incontinence include
                
- Eating the right amount of fiber. Fiber can help with diarrhea and constipation. Fiber is found in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and beans. Fiber supplements sold in a pharmacy or in a health food store are another common source of fiber to treat fecal incontinence. The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics recommends consuming 20 to 35 grams of fiber a day for adults and age plus five grams for children. A 7-year-old child, for example, should get 7 plus five, or 12, grams of fiber a day. American adults consume only 15 grams a day on average.2 Fiber should be added to the diet slowly to avoid bloating.  - Getting plenty to drink. Drinking eight 8-ounce glasses of liquid a day may help prevent constipation. Water is a good choice. Drinks with caffeine, alcohol, milk, or carbonation should be avoided if they trigger diarrhea.
                
Keeping a Food Diary   A food diary can help identify foods that cause diarrhea and increase the risk of fecal incontinence. A food diary should list foods eaten, portion size, and when fecal incontinence occurs. After a few days, the diary may show a link between certain foods and fecal incontinence. Eating less of foods linked to fecal incontinence may improve symptoms. A food diary can also be helpful to a health care provider treating a person with fecal incontinence.   Common foods and drinks linked to fecal incontinence include   - dairy products such as milk, cheese, and ice cream   - drinks and foods containing caffeine   - cured or smoked meat such as sausage, ham, and turkey   - spicy foods   - alcoholic beverages   - fruits such as apples, peaches, and pears   - fatty and greasy foods   - sweeteners in diet drinks and sugarless gum and candy, including sorbitol, xylitol, mannitol, and fructose
                

                
Examples of Foods That Have Fiber        Beans, cereals, and breads    Fiber         cup of beans (navy, pinto, kidney, etc.), cooked    6.29.6 grams         cup of shredded wheat, ready-to-eat cereal    2.73.8 grams         cup of 100% bran, ready-to-eat cereal    9.1 grams        1 small oat bran muffin    3.0 grams        1 whole-wheat English muffin    4.4 grams        Fruits        1 small apple, with skin    3.6 grams        1 medium pear, with skin    5.5 grams         cup of raspberries    4.0 grams         cup of stewed prunes    3.8 grams        Vegetables         cup of winter squash, cooked    2.9 grams         1 medium sweet potato, baked in skin    3.8 grams         cup of green peas, cooked    3.54.4 grams        1 small potato, baked, with skin    3.0 grams         cup of mixed vegetables, cooked    4.0 grams         cup of broccoli, cooked    2.62.8 grams          cup of greens (spinach, collards, turnip greens), cooked    2.53.5 grams
                

                
Medications
                
If diarrhea is causing fecal incontinence, medication may help. Health care providers sometimes recommend using bulk laxatives, such as Citrucel and Metamucil, to develop more solid stools that are easier to control. Antidiarrheal medications such as loperamide or diphenoxylate may be recommended to slow down the bowels and help control the problem.
                
Bowel Training
                
Developing a regular bowel movement pattern can improve fecal incontinence, especially fecal incontinence due to constipation. Bowel training involves trying to have bowel movements at specific times of the day, such as after every meal. Over time, the body becomes used to a regular bowel movement pattern, thus reducing constipation and related fecal incontinence. Persistence is key to successful bowel training. Achieving a regular bowel control pattern can take weeks to months.
                
Pelvic Floor Exercises and Biofeedback
                
Exercises that strengthen the pelvic floor muscles may improve bowel control. Pelvic floor exercises involve squeezing and relaxing pelvic floor muscles 50 to 100 times a day. A health care provider can help with proper technique. Biofeedback therapy may also help a person perform the exercises properly. This therapy also improves a persons awareness of sensations in the rectum, teaching how to coordinate squeezing of the external sphincter muscle with the sensation of rectal filling. Biofeedback training uses special sensors to measure bodily functions. Sensors include pressure or EMG sensors in the anus, pressure sensors in the rectum, and a balloon in the rectum to produce graded sensations of rectal fullness. The measurements are displayed on a video screen as sounds or line graphs. The health care provider uses the information to help the person modify or change abnormal function. The person practices the exercises at home. Success with pelvic floor exercises depends on the cause of fecal incontinence, its severity, and the persons motivation and ability to follow the health care providers recommendations.
                
Surgery
                
Surgery may be an option for fecal incontinence that fails to improve with other treatments or for fecal incontinence caused by pelvic floor or anal sphincter muscle injuries.
                
- Sphincteroplasty, the most common fecal incontinence surgery, reconnects the separated ends of a sphincter muscle torn by childbirth or another injury. Sphincteroplasty is performed at a hospital by a colorectal, gynecological, or general surgeon.  - Artificial anal sphincter involves placing an inflatable cuff around the anus and implanting a small pump beneath the skin that the person activates to inflate or deflate the cuff. This surgery is much less common and is performed at a hospital by a specially trained colorectal surgeon.  - Nonabsorbable bulking agents can be injected into the wall of the anus to bulk up the tissue around the anus. The bulkier tissues make the opening of the anus narrower so the sphincters are able to close better. The procedure is performed in a health care providers office; anesthesia is not needed. The person can return to normal physical activities 1 week after the procedure.  - Bowel diversion is an operation that reroutes the normal movement of stool out of the body when part of the bowel is removed. The operation diverts the lower part of the small intestine or colon to an opening in the wall of the abdomenthe area between the chest and hips. An external pouch is attached to the opening to collect stool. The procedure is performed by a surgeon in a hospital and anesthesia is used. More information about these procedures can be found in the Bowel Diversion fact sheet.
                
Electrical Stimulation
                
Electrical stimulation, also called sacral nerve stimulation or neuromodulation, involves placing electrodes in the sacral nerves to the anus and rectum and continuously stimulating the nerves with electrical pulses. The sacral nerves connect to the part of the spine in the hip area. A battery-operated stimulator is placed beneath the skin. Based on the persons response, the health care provider can adjust the amount of stimulation so it works best for that person. The person can turn the stimulator on or off at any time. The procedure is performed in an outpatient center using local anesthesia.

Question: What to do for Fecal Incontinence ?
Answer: - Fecal incontinence, also called a bowel control problem, is the accidental passing of solid or liquid stool or mucus from the rectum. Fecal incontinence includes the inability to hold a bowel movement until reaching a toilet as well as passing stool into ones underwear without being aware of it happening.  - Nearly 18 million U.S. adultsabout one in 12have fecal incontinence. People with fecal incontinence should not be afraid or embarrassed to talk with their health care provider.  - Fecal incontinence has many causes, including      - diarrhea    - constipation    - muscle damage or weakness    - nerve damage    - loss of stretch in the rectum    - childbirth by vaginal delivery    - hemorrhoids and rectal prolapse    - rectocele    - inactivity    - Health care providers diagnose fecal incontinence based on a persons medical history, physical exam, and medical test results.  - Treatment for fecal incontinence may include one or more of the following:      - eating, diet, and nutrition    - medications    - bowel training    - pelvic floor exercises and biofeedback    - surgery    - electrical stimulation    - A food diary can help identify foods that cause fecal incontinence.  - Fecal incontinence can occur in children because of a birth defect or disease, but in most cases it occurs because of constipation.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Diverticular Disease ?
Answer: - Diverticular disease is more common in people as they grow older.  - A low-fiber diet is the most likely cause of the disease.  - Most people are treated with a high-fiber diet and pain medication.  - Add whole grain foods, high-fiber fruits, and vegetables to your diet.  - Contact a doctor if you notice symptoms such as fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, rectal bleeding, or change in bowel habits.

Question: What to do for Kidney Failure: Choosing a Treatment That's Right for You ?
Answer: All of the treatment options for kidney failure require changes and restrictions in your diet.
                
Hemodialysis
                
Hemodialysis has the most restrictions. You should watch how much water and other liquids you get from food and drinks and avoid getting too much sodium, often from salt; potassium; and phosphorus. You may find it difficult to limit phosphorus because many foods that are high in phosphorus also provide the protein you need. Hemodialysis can remove protein from the body, so you should eat foods with high-quality protein, such as meat, fish, and eggs. Limit your phosphorus by avoiding foods such as beans, peas, nuts, tea, and colas. You may also need to take a pill called a phosphate binder that keeps phosphorus in your food from entering your bloodstream. Talk with your dialysis centers dietitian to find a hemodialysis meal plan that works for you.
                
More information about nutrition for people who are on hemodialysis is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Eat Right to Feel Right on Hemodialysis.
                
Peritoneal Dialysis
                
Like hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis requires limits on sodium and phosphorus. You may need to take a phosphate binder. The liquid limitations in peritoneal dialysis may not be as strict as those for hemodialysis. In fact, you may need to drink more water and other liquids if your peritoneal dialysis treatments remove too much fluid from your body. Peritoneal dialysis removes potassium from the body, so you may need to eat potassium-rich foods such as potatoes, tomatoes, oranges, and bananas. However, be careful not to eat too much potassium because it can cause an unsteady heartbeat. Peritoneal dialysis removes even more protein than hemodialysis, so eating foods with high-quality protein is important. You may need to limit calories because your body absorbs sugar from the dialysis solution.
                
Kidney Transplantation
                
Kidney transplantation has the fewest restrictions on your diet. You should limit sodium because it can raise your blood pressure. Medicines that you take after the transplant can cause you to gain weight, so you may need to limit calories.
                
Conservative Management
                
The diet for conservative management limits protein. Protein breaks down into waste products the kidneys must remove. Limiting protein may reduce the amount of work the kidneys have to do so they will last longer.
                

                
Hemodialysis    Peritoneal Dialysis    Kidney Transplantation                 In Center                 Home                 CAPD                 CCPD                 Deceased                 Living                     Schedule                 Three treatments a week for 3 to 5 hours or more.                 More flexibility in determining your schedule of treatments.                 Four to six exchanges a day, every day.                 Three to five exchanges a night, every night, with an additional exchange begun first thing in the morning.                 You may wait several years before a suitable kidney is available.                 If a friend or family member is donating, you can schedule the operation when you're both ready.                     After the operation, you'll have regular checkups with your doctor.                     Location                 Dialysis center.                 Home.                 Any clean environment that allows solution exchanges.                 The transplant operation takes place in a hospital.                     Availability                 Available in most communities; may require travel in some rural areas.                 Generally available, but not widely used because of equipment requirements.                 Widely available.                 Widely available.                 Transplant centers are located throughout the country. However, the demand for kidneys is far greater than the supply.                     Equipment      and Supplies                 No equipment or supplies in the home.                 Hemodialysis machine connected to plumbing; chair.                 Bags of dialysis solution take up storage space.                 Cycling machine; bags of dialysis solution.                 No equipment or supplies needed.                     Training Required                 Little training required; clinic staff perform most tasks.                 You and a helper must attend several training sessions.                 You'll need to attend several training sessions.                 You'll need to learn about your medications and when to take them.                     Diet                 Must limit fluids, sodium, potassium, and phosphorus.                 Must limit sodium and calories.                 Fewer dietary restrictions.                     Level of Freedom                 Little freedom during treatments. Greater freedom on non-treatment days.                 More freedom to set your own schedule. You're still linked to a machine for several hours a week.                 You can move around, exercise, work, drive, etc., with solution in your abdomen.                 You're linked to a machine during the night. You're free from exchanges during the day.                 Offers the greatest amount of freedom.                     Level of Responsibility                 Some patients prefer to let clinic staff perform all tasks.                 You and your helper are responsible for cleaning and setting up equipment and monitoring vital signs. Can be stressful on family helpers.                 You must perform exchanges four to six times a day, every day.                 You must set up your cycler every night.                 You must take immunosuppressants every day for as long as the transplanted kidney functions.
                
More information about the treatments for kidney failure is provided in the NIDDK health communication program, National Kidney Disease Education Program.

Question: What to do for Kidney Failure: Choosing a Treatment That's Right for You ?
Answer: - You have three treatment options to choose from to filter your blood. A fourth option offers care without replacing the work of the kidneys.      - Hemodialysis    - Peritoneal dialysis    - Kidney transplantation    - Conservative management    - None of these treatments helps the kidneys get better. However, they all can help you feel better.  - Hemodialysis uses a machine to move your blood through a filter outside your body, removing wastes.  - Peritoneal dialysis uses the lining of your belly to filter your blood inside your body, removing wastes.  - Kidney transplantation is surgery to place a healthy kidney from a person who has just died or a living person, usually a family member, into your body to take over the job of filtering your blood.  - Conservative management is the choice not to treat kidney failure with dialysis or a transplant.  - All of the treatment options for kidney failure require changes and restrictions in your diet.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Hirschsprung Disease ?
Answer: - Hirschsprung disease (HD) is a disease of the large intestine that causes severe constipation or intestinal obstruction. People with HD are born with it.  - The large intestine, which includes the colon and rectum, is the last part of the digestive tract.  - The cause of HD is unclear. HD is not caused by anything a mother did while pregnant.  - The main symptoms of HD are constipation or intestinal obstruction, usually appearing shortly after birth.  - Newborns with HD almost always fail to have their first bowel movement within 48 hours after birth.  - HD is diagnosed based on symptoms and test results.  - HD is treated with surgery called a pull-through procedure.  - A child who has been very sick from HD may need an ostomy to get better before the pull-through procedure.  - Most children pass stool normally after the pull-through procedure.  - People with HD can suffer from an infection of the intestines, called enterocolitis, before or after surgery.  - If you have a child with HD, your chance of having more children with HD is greater.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Physical Activity and Diabetes ?
Answer: - Starting a physical activity program can help you lose weight or keep a healthy weight and keep your blood glucose levels on target.  - Always talk with your health care team before you start a new physical activity program.  - Ask your health care team if you need to change the amount of medicine you take or the food you eat before any physical activity.  - Talk with your health care team about what types of physical activity are safe for you, such as walking, weightlifting, or housework.  - To make sure you stay active, find activities you like to do. Ask a friend or family member to be your exercise buddy.  - Write down your blood glucose levels and when and how long you are physically active in a record book.  - Doctors suggest that you aim for 30 to 60 minutes of moderate to vigorous physical activity most days of the week.  - Children and adolescents with type 2 diabetes who are 10 to 17 years old should aim for 60 minutes of moderate to vigorous activity every day.  - Not all physical activity has to take place at the same time. For example, you might take a walk for 20 minutes, lift hand weights for 10 minutes, and walk up and down the stairs for 5 minutes.  - Doing moderate to vigorous aerobic exercise for 30 to 60 minutes a day most days of the week provides many benefits. You can even split up these minutes into several parts.  - Start exercising slowly, with 5 to 10 minutes a day, and add a little more time each week. Try walking briskly, hiking, or climbing stairs.  - Whether youre a man or a woman, you can do strength training with hand weights, elastic bands, or weight machines two to three times a week.  - Stretching exercises are a light to moderate physical activity that both men and women can do. When you stretch, you increase your flexibility, lower your stress, and help prevent sore muscles.  - Increase daily activity by spending less time watching TV or at the computer.  - Try these simple ways to add light, moderate, or vigorous physical activities in your life every day:      - Walk around while you talk on the phone.    - Take a walk through your neighborhood.    - Do chores, such as work in the garden or rake leaves, clean the house, or wash the car.    - If you have type 1 diabetes, try not to do vigorous physical activity when you have ketones in your blood or urine.

Question: What to do for Hyperthyroidism ?
Answer: Experts recommend that people eat a balanced diet to obtain most nutrients. More information about diet and nutrition is provided by the National Agricultural Library at www.nutrition.gov.
                
Dietary Supplements
                
Iodine is an essential mineral for the thyroid. However, people with autoimmune thyroid disease may be sensitive to harmful side effects from iodine. Taking iodine drops or eating foods containing large amounts of iodinesuch as seaweed, dulse, or kelpmay cause or worsen hyperthyroidism. More information about iodine is provided by the National Library of Medicine in the fact sheet, Iodine in diet, available at www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus.
                
Women need more iodine when they are pregnantabout 250 micrograms a daybecause the baby gets iodine from the mothers diet. In the United States, about 7 percent of pregnant women may not get enough iodine in their diet or through prenatal vitamins.6 Choosing iodized saltsalt supplemented with iodineover plain salt and prenatal vitamins containing iodine will ensure this need is met.
                
To help ensure coordinated and safe care, people should discuss their use of dietary supplements, such as iodine, with their health care provider. Tips for talking with health care providers are available through the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health.

Question: What to do for Hyperthyroidism ?
Answer: - Hyperthyroidism is a disorder that occurs when the thyroid gland makes more thyroid hormone than the body needs.  - Hyperthyroidism is most often caused by Graves disease, an autoimmune disorder. Other causes include thyroid nodules, thyroiditis, consuming too much iodine, and overmedicating with synthetic thyroid hormone.  - Some symptoms of hyperthyroidism are nervousness or irritability, fatigue or muscle weakness, heat intolerance, trouble sleeping, hand tremors, rapid and irregular heartbeat, frequent bowel movements or diarrhea, weight loss, mood swings, and goiter.  - Hyperthyroidism is much more common in women than men.  - Hyperthyroidism is also more common in people older than age 60 and is often caused by thyroid nodules. Hyperthyroidism in this age group is sometimes misdiagnosed as depression or dementia. For people older than age 60, subclinical hyperthyroidism increases their chance of developing atrial fibrillation.  - Women with hyperthyroidism should discuss their condition with their health care provider before becoming pregnant.  - Hyperthyroidism is treated with medications, radioiodine therapy, or thyroid surgery. No single treatment works for everyone.

Question: What to do for Polycystic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: A dietitian specializes in helping people who have kidney disease choose the right foods and plan healthy meals. People with any kind of kidney disease, including PKD, should talk with a dietitian about foods that should be added to their diet and foods that might be harmful.
                
PKD may require diet changes for blood pressure control. Kidney disease in general also calls for certain diet changes.
                
Following a healthy eating plan can help lower blood pressure. A health care provider may recommend the Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) eating plan, which focuses on fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and other foods that are heart healthy and lower in sodium, which often comes from salt. The DASH eating plan
                
- is low in fat and cholesterol  - features fat-free or low-fat milk and dairy products, fish, poultry, and nuts  - suggests less red meat, sweets, added sugars, and sugar-containing beverages  - is rich in nutrients, protein, and fiber
                
More information about the DASH eating planis available from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.
                
As your kidneys become more damaged, you may need to eat foods that are lower in phosphorus and potassium. The health care provider will use lab tests to watch your levels.
                
Foods high in potassium include
                
- bananas  - oranges  - potatoes  - tomatoes
                
Lower-potassium foods include
                
- apples  - peaches  - carrots  - green beans
                
Foods higher in phosphorus include
                
- large portions of meat, fish and dairy foods  - bran cereals and oatmeal  - beans and nuts  - colas
                
Lower-phosphorus alternatives include
                
- fresh fruits and vegetables  - breads  - pasta  - rice  - corn and rice cereals  - light-colored sodas
                
People with kidney disease and high blood pressure should also limit how much sodium they get to 2,300 mg or less each day.5
                
People with CKD may need to watch how much protein they eat. Everyone needs protein. However, protein breaks down into wastes the kidneys must remove. Large amounts of protein make the kidneys work harder. High-quality proteins such as meat, fish, and eggs create fewer wastes than other sources of protein. Beans, whole grains, soy products, nuts and nut butters, and dairy products can also be good sources of protein. Most people eat more protein than they need. Eating high-quality protein and smaller portions of protein can help protect the kidneys.
                
More information about nutrition for kidney disease is provided in the NIDDK health topics:
                
- Nutrition for Children with Chronic Kidney Disease  - Nutrition for Adults with Early Chronic Kidney Disease  - Nutrition for Adults with Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease
                
The National Kidney Disease Education Program offers a series of easy-to-read fact sheets about nutrition for people with CKD.

Question: What to do for Polycystic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: - Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) is a genetic disorder that causes numerous cysts to grow in the kidneys.  - A gene mutation, or defect, causes polycystic kidney disease.  - Autosomal dominant PKD is the most common form of PKD and the most common inherited disorder of the kidneys.  - Health care providers identify most cases of autosomal dominant PKD between the ages of 30 and 50.  - The most common symptoms of PKD are pain in the back and sidesbetween the ribs and hipsand headaches. The pain can be temporary or persistent, mild or severe. Hematuriablood in the urinemay also be a sign of autosomal dominant PKD.  - The complications of autosomal dominant PKD include the following:      - pain    - high blood pressure    - kidney failure    - urinary tract infections (UTIs)    - kidney stones    - liver cysts    - pancreatic cysts    - abnormal heart valves    - diverticula    - brain aneurysms    - A health care provider diagnoses autosomal dominant PKD using imaging tests and genetic testing.  - A radiologista doctor who specializes in medical imagingwill interpret the images produced by the following imaging tests:      - ultrasound    - computerized tomography scans    - magnetic resonance imaging    - Genetic testing can show whether a persons cells carry a gene mutation that causes autosomal dominant PKD. A health care provider may also use genetic testing results to determine whether someone with a family history of PKD is likely to develop the disorder in the future. Prenatal testing can diagnose autosomal recessive PKD in unborn children.  - Although a cure for autosomal dominant PKD is not currently available, treatment can ease symptoms and prolong life.  - Autosomal recessive PKD is a rare genetic disorder that affects the liver as well as the kidneys.  - The complications of autosomal recessive PKD include the following:      - death due to breathing problems    - kidney failure    - liver scarring    - high blood pressure    - UTIs    - A health care provider diagnoses autosomal recessive PKD with ultrasound imaging, even in a fetus or newborn.  - Treatments for autosomal recessive PKD focus on the symptoms and complications.  - Scientists have not yet found a way to prevent PKD. However, people with PKD may slow the progression of kidney damage caused by high blood pressure through lifestyle changes, diet, and blood pressure medications.  - People with any kind of kidney disease, including PKD, should talk with a dietitian about foods they should add to their diet and foods that might be harmful.

Question: What to do for Nutrition for Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults ?
Answer: - A person may prevent or delay some health problems from chronic kidney disease (CKD) by eating the right foods and avoiding foods high in sodium, potassium, and phosphorus.  - The kidneys remove wastes and extra water from the blood and make urine.  - Medical nutrition therapy (MNT) is the use of counseling by a registered dietitian to help promote a medical or health goal.  - Dietitians who specialize in helping people with CKD are called renal dietitians.  - People with advanced CKD often lose their appetites and consume fewer caloriesimportant units of energy in foodand may lose too much weight.  - Eating more protein than the body needs may put an extra burden on the kidneys and cause kidney function to decline faster. Most peoplewith or without CKDcan get the daily protein they need by eating two 3-ounce servings of meat or meat substitute.  - People with CKD are at higher risk of having a heart attack or stroke.  - Everyone needs dietary fat, but some fats are healthier than others.  - Too much sodium in a persons diet can be harmful because it causes blood to hold fluid. People with CKD need to be careful not to let too much fluid build up in their bodies.  - People with advanced CKD should avoid salt substitutes that use potassium because CKD limits the bodys ability to eliminate potassium from the blood.  - Damaged kidneys allow potassium to build up in the blood, causing serious heart problems. Potassium is found in many fruits and vegetables, such as bananas, potatoes, avocados, and melons.  - Too much phosphorus in the blood pulls calcium from the bones, making the bones weak and likely to break.  - People with advanced CKD may need to limit how much they drink because damaged kidneys can't remove extra fluid.  - Many patients find that keeping track of their test results helps them see how their treatment is working. Patients can ask their health care provider for copies of their lab reports and ask to have them explained, noting any results out of the normal range.

Question: What to do for Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: - Diabetes is a complex group of diseases with a variety of causes. Scientists believe genes and environmental factors interact to cause diabetes in most cases.  - People with diabetes have high blood glucose, also called high blood sugar or hyperglycemia. Diabetes develops when the body doesnt make enough insulin or is not able to use insulin effectively, or both.  - Insulin is a hormone made by beta cells in the pancreas. Insulin helps cells throughout the body absorb and use glucose for energy. If the body does not produce enough insulin or cannot use insulin effectively, glucose builds up in the blood instead of being absorbed by cells in the body, and the body is starved of energy.  - Prediabetes is a condition in which blood glucose levels or A1C levels are higher than normal but not high enough to be diagnosed as diabetes. People with prediabetes can substantially reduce their risk of developing diabetes by losing weight and increasing physical activity.  - The two main types of diabetes are type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. Gestational diabetes is a third form of diabetes that develops only during pregnancy.  - Type 1 diabetes is caused by a lack of insulin due to the destruction of insulin-producing beta cells. In type 1 diabetesan autoimmune diseasethe bodys immune system attacks and destroys the beta cells.  - Type 2 diabetesthe most common form of diabetesis caused by a combination of factors, including insulin resistance, a condition in which the bodys muscle, fat, and liver cells do not use insulin effectively. Type 2 diabetes develops when the body can no longer produce enough insulin to compensate for the impaired ability to use insulin.  - Scientists believe gestational diabetes is caused by the hormonal changes and metabolic demands of pregnancy together with genetic and environmental factors. Risk factors for gestational diabetes include being overweight and having a family history of diabetes.  - Monogenic forms of diabetes are relatively uncommon and are caused by mutations in single genes that limit insulin production, quality, or action in the body.  - Other types of diabetes are caused by diseases and injuries that damage the pancreas; certain chemical toxins and medications; infections; and other conditions.

Question: What to do for Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome ?
Answer: Children who have nephrotic syndrome may need to make changes to their diet, such as
                
- limiting the amount of sodium, often from salt, they take in each day  - reducing the amount of liquids they drink each day  - eating a diet low in saturated fat and cholesterol to help control elevated cholesterol levels
                
Parents or caretakers should talk with the childs health care provider before making any changes to the childs diet.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Nutrition for Chronic Kidney Disease in Children.

Question: What to do for Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome ?
Answer: - Childhood nephrotic syndrome is not a disease in itself; rather, it is a group of symptoms that      - indicate kidney damageparticularly damage to the glomeruli, the tiny units within the kidney where blood is filtered    - result in the release of too much protein from the body into the urine    - The two types of childhood nephrotic syndrome are      - primarythe most common type of childhood nephrotic syndrome, which begins in the kidneys and affects only the kidneys    - secondarythe syndrome is caused by other diseases    - The signs and symptoms of childhood nephrotic syndrome may include      - edemaswelling, most often in the legs, feet, or ankles and less often in the hands or face    - albuminuriawhen a childs urine has high levels of albumin    - hypoalbuminemiawhen a childs blood has low levels of albumin    - hyperlipidemiawhen a childs blood cholesterol and fat levels are higher than normal    - A health care provider may order urine tests to help determine if a child has kidney damage from childhood nephrotic syndrome.  - Health care providers will decide how to treat childhood nephrotic syndrome based on the type:      - primary childhood nephrotic syndrome: medications    - secondary childhood nephrotic syndrome: treat the underlying illness or disease    - congenital nephrotic syndrome: medications, surgery to remove one or both kidneys, or transplantation

Question: What to do for Renal Tubular Acidosis ?
Answer: - Renal tubular acidosis (RTA) is a disease that occurs when the kidneys fail to excrete acids into the urine, which causes a person's blood to remain too acidic.  - Without proper treatment, chronic acidity of the blood leads to growth retardation, kidney stones, bone disease, chronic kidney disease, and possibly total kidney failure.  - If RTA is suspected, additional information about the sodium, potassium, and chloride levels in the urine and the potassium level in the blood will help identify which type of RTA a person has.  - In all cases, the first goal of therapy is to neutralize acid in the blood, but different treatments may be needed to address the different underlying causes of acidosis.

Question: What to do for Renal Tubular Acidosis ?
Answer: - Renal tubular acidosis (RTA) is a disease that occurs when the kidneys fail to excrete acids into the urine, which causes a person's blood to remain too acidic.  - Without proper treatment, chronic acidity of the blood leads to growth retardation, kidney stones, bone disease, chronic kidney disease, and possibly total kidney failure.  - If RTA is suspected, additional information about the sodium, potassium, and chloride levels in the urine and the potassium level in the blood will help identify which type of RTA a person has.  - In all cases, the first goal of therapy is to neutralize acid in the blood, but different treatments may be needed to address the different underlying causes of acidosis.

Question: What to do for Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your diabetes under control ?
Answer: Following a healthy eating plan is a key step in living with diabetes and preventing diabetes problems. Your health care team will help you make a healthy eating plan.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, What I need to know about Eating and Diabetes or call 18008608747.

Question: What to do for Acquired Cystic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: No specific diet will prevent or delay acquired cystic kidney disease. In general, a diet designed for people on hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis reduces the amount of wastes that accumulate in the body between dialysis sessions.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics, Eat Right to Feel Right on Hemodialysis and Nutrition for Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults.

Question: What to do for Acquired Cystic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: - Acquired cystic kidney disease happens when a person's kidneys develop fluid-filled sacs, called cysts, over time.  - Acquired cystic kidney disease occurs in children and adults who have      - chronic kidney disease (CKD)    - end-stage kidney disease (ESRD)    - People with acquired cystic kidney disease may develop the following complications:      - an infected cyst, which can cause fever and back pain    - blood in the urine, which can signal that a cyst in the kidney is bleeding    - tumors in the kidneys    - To confirm the diagnosis, the health care provider may order one or more imaging tests:      - Ultrasound    - Computerized tomography (CT) scan    - Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)    - If acquired cystic kidney disease is not causing complications, a person does not need treatment.  - A health care provider will treat infections with antibioticsmedications that kill bacteria.  - If large cysts are causing pain, a health care provider may drain the cyst using a long needle inserted into the cyst through the skin.  - A surgeon may perform an operation to remove tumors or suspected tumors. In rare cases, a surgeon performs an operation to stop cysts from bleeding.

Question: What to do for Prostate Enlargement: Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing benign prostatic hyperplasia. However, a health care provider can give information about how changes in eating, diet, or nutrition could help with treatment. Men should talk with a health care provider or dietitian about what diet is right for them.

Question: What to do for Prostate Enlargement: Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia ?
Answer: - Benign prostatic hyperplasiaalso called BPHis a condition in men in which the prostate gland is enlarged and not cancerous.  - The prostate is a walnut-shaped gland that is part of the male reproductive system.  - The cause of benign prostatic hyperplasia is not well understood; however, it occurs mainly in older men.  - Benign prostatic hyperplasia is the most common prostate problem for men older than age 50.  - Lower urinary tract symptoms suggestive of benign prostatic hyperplasia may include      - urinary frequencyurination eight or more times a day    - urinary urgencythe inability to delay urination    - trouble starting a urine stream    - a weak or an interrupted urine stream    - dribbling at the end of urination    - nocturiafrequent urination during periods of sleep    - urinary retentionthe inability to empty the bladder completely    - urinary incontinencethe accidental loss of urine    - pain after ejaculation or during urination    - urine that has an unusual color or smell    - The complications of benign prostatic hyperplasia may include      - acute urinary retention    - chronic, or long lasting, urinary retention    - blood in the urine    - urinary tract infections (UTIs)    - bladder damage    - kidney damage    - bladder stones    - A health care provider diagnoses benign prostatic hyperplasia based on      - a personal and family medical history    - a physical exam    - medical tests    - Treatment options for benign prostatic hyperplasia may include      - lifestyle changes    - medications    - minimally invasive procedures    - surgery    - The complications of benign prostatic hyperplasia treatment depend on the type of treatment.  - Researchers have not found a way to prevent benign prostatic hyperplasia.  - Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing benign prostatic hyperplasia.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about My Child's Urinary Tract Infection ?
Answer: To help prevent a UTI, make sure your child drinks enough fluids each day. Talk with your childs health care provider to find out how much fluid your child should drink.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about My Child's Urinary Tract Infection ?
Answer: - A urinary tract infection (UTI) is an infection in the urinary tract. Infections are caused by microbesorganisms too small to be seen without a microscope.  - Most UTIs are caused by bacteria that live in the bowel, the part of the digestive tract where stool is changed from liquid to solid.  - Any child can get a UTI, though girls get UTIs more often than boys.  - Most UTIs are not serious, but some infections can lead to serious problems.  - A child with a UTI may not have any symptoms. When symptoms are present, they can range from mild to severe.  - A UTI is diagnosed by testing a sample of your childs urine.  - Bacteria-fighting medicines called antibiotics are used to treat a UTI.  - Talk with your childs health care provider after your childs UTI is gone. The health care provider may want to do more tests to check for vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) or a blockage in the urinary tract.  - You can take steps to help prevent your child from getting a UTI.

Question: What to do for Primary Biliary Cirrhosis ?
Answer: A healthy diet is important in all stages of cirrhosis because malnutrition is common in people with this disease. Malnutrition is a condition that occurs when the body does not get enough nutrients. Cirrhosis may lead to malnutrition because it can cause
                
- people to eat less because of symptoms such as loss of appetite  - changes in metabolism  - reduced absorption of vitamins and minerals
                
Health care providers can recommend a meal plan that is well balanced and provides enough calories and protein. If ascites develops, a health care provider or dietitian may recommend a sodium-restricted diet. To improve nutrition, the health care provider may prescribe a liquid supplement. A person may take the liquid by mouth or through a nasogastric tubea tiny tube inserted through the nose and throat that reaches into the stomach.
                
A person with cirrhosis should not eat raw shellfish, which can contain a bacterium that causes serious infection. Cirrhosis affects the immune system, making people with cirrhosis more likely than healthy people to develop an infection after eating shellfish that contain this bacterium.
                
A health care provider may recommend calcium and vitamin D supplements to help prevent osteoporosis.

Question: What to do for Primary Biliary Cirrhosis ?
Answer: - Primary biliary cirrhosis is a chronic disease that causes the small bile ducts in the liver to become inflamed and damaged and ultimately disappear.  - When chronic inflammation damages the bile ducts, bile and toxic wastes build up in the liver, damaging liver tissue. This damage to the liver tissue can lead to cirrhosis.  - The causes of primary biliary cirrhosis are unknown. Most research suggests it is an autoimmune disease.  - Primary biliary cirrhosis is more common in people who have a parent or siblingparticularly an identical twinwith the disease.  - The first and most common symptoms of primary biliary cirrhosis are fatigue, itching, and dry eyes and mouth. Some people may have jaundice, a condition that causes the skin and whites of the eyes to turn yellow. Health care providers diagnose up to 60 percent of people with primary biliary cirrhosis before symptoms begin.  - Most complications of primary biliary cirrhosis are related to cirrhosis and start after primary biliary cirrhosis progresses to cirrhosis.  - A health care provider may use the following tests to diagnose primary biliary cirrhosis:      - a medical and family history    - a physical exam    - blood tests    - imaging tests    - a liver biopsy    - Health care providers prescribe ursodiol (Actigall, Urso) to treat primary biliary cirrhosis. Early treatment with this medication reduces the likelihood of needing a liver transplant and improves survival.  - A health care provider may consider a liver transplant when cirrhosis leads to liver failure or treatment for complications is ineffective.

Question: What to do for Kidney Disease of Diabetes ?
Answer: - Diabetes is the leading cause of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and kidney failure in the United States.  - People with diabetes should be screened regularly for kidney disease. The two key markers for kidney disease are estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and urine albumin.  - Drugs used to lower blood pressure can slow the progression of kidney disease significantly. Two types of drugs, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), have proven effective in slowing the progression of kidney disease.  - In people with diabetes, excessive consumption of protein may be harmful.  - Intensive management of blood glucose has shown great promise for people with diabetes, especially for those in the early stages of CKD.

Question: What to do for Kidney Disease of Diabetes ?
Answer: - Diabetes is the leading cause of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and kidney failure in the United States.  - People with diabetes should be screened regularly for kidney disease. The two key markers for kidney disease are estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and urine albumin.  - Drugs used to lower blood pressure can slow the progression of kidney disease significantly. Two types of drugs, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), have proven effective in slowing the progression of kidney disease.  - In people with diabetes, excessive consumption of protein may be harmful.  - Intensive management of blood glucose has shown great promise for people with diabetes, especially for those in the early stages of CKD.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Lactose Intolerance ?
Answer: Talk with your doctor about your dietary plan. A dietary plan can help you manage the symptoms of lactose intolerance and get enough nutrients. If you have a child with lactose intolerance, follow the diet plan that your childs doctor recommends.
                
Milk and milk products. You may be able to have milk and milk products without symptoms if you
                
- drink small amounts of milkhalf a cup or lessat a time  - drink small amounts of milk with meals, such as having milk with cereal or having cheese with crackers  - add small amounts of milk and milk products to your diet a little at a time and see how you feel  - eat milk products that are easier for people with lactose intolerance to break down:      - yogurt    - hard cheeses such as cheddar and Swiss
                

                
Lactose-free and lactose-reduced milk and milk products. You can find lactose-free and lactose-reduced milk and milk products at the grocery store. These products are just as healthy for you as regular milk and milk products.
                
Lactase products. You can use lactase tablets and drops when you have milk and milk products. The lactase enzyme breaks down the lactose in food. Using lactase tablets or drops can help you prevent symptoms of lactose intolerance. Check with your doctor before using these products. Some people, such as young children and pregnant and breastfeeding women, may not be able to use these products.
                

                

                
Calcium and Vitamin D   If you are lactose intolerant, make sure you get enough calcium each day. Milk and milk products are the most common sources of calcium. Other foods that contain calcium include   - fish with soft bones, such as canned salmon or sardines   - broccoli and other leafy green vegetables   - oranges   - almonds, Brazil nuts, and dried beans   - tofu   - products with the label showing added calcium, such as cereals, fruit juices, and soy milk    Vitamin D helps the body absorb and use calcium. Be sure to eat foods that contain vitamin D, such as eggs, liver, and certain kinds of fish, such as salmon. Also, being outside in the sunlight helps your body make vitamin D. Some companies add vitamin D to milk and milk products. If you are able to drink small amounts of milk or eat yogurt, choose those that have vitamin D added.   Talk with your doctor about how to get enough nutrientsincluding calcium and vitamin Din your diet or your childs diet. Ask if you should also take a supplement to get enough calcium and vitamin D.   For safety reasons, talk with your doctor before using dietary supplements or any other nonmainstream medicine together with or in place of the treatment your doctor prescribes. Read more at www.ods.od.nih.gov and www.nccam.nih.gov.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Lactose Intolerance ?
Answer: - Lactose is a sugar found in milk and milk products.  - Lactose intolerance means you have symptoms such as bloating, diarrhea, and gas after you have milk or milk products.  - Your doctor will try to find out if you have lactose intolerance with a medical, family, and diet history; a physical exam; and medical tests.  - Most people with lactose intolerance can eat or drink some lactose without symptoms.  - If you have lactose intolerance, you can make changes to what you eat and drink. Some people may only need to have less lactose. Others may need to avoid lactose altogether.  - Talk with your doctor about how to get enough nutrientsincluding calcium and vitamin Din your diet or your childs diet. Ask if you should also take a supplement to get enough calcium and vitamin D. For safety reasons, talk with your doctor before using dietary supplements or any other nonmainstream medicine together with or in place of the treatment your doctor prescribes.  - Lactose is in many food products and in some medicines.

Question: What to do for Cystocele ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing a cystocele.

Question: What to do for Cystocele ?
Answer: - A cystocele, also called a prolapsed or dropped bladder, is the bulging or dropping of the bladder into the vagina.  - A cystocele occurs when the muscles and supportive tissues between a womans bladder and vagina weaken and stretch, letting the bladder sag from its normal position and bulge into the vagina or through the vaginal opening.  - Diagnosing a cystocele requires medical tests and a physical exam of the vagina.  - Cystocele treatment depends on the severity of the cystocele and whether a woman has symptoms.

Question: What to do for Whipple Disease ?
Answer: A person with Whipple disease and malabsorption may need
                
- a diet high in calories and protein  - vitamins  - nutritional supplements

Question: What to do for Whipple Disease ?
Answer: - Whipple disease is a rare bacterial infection that primarily affects the small intestine. Left untreated, Whipple disease gets worse and is usually life threatening.  - Bacteria called Tropheryma whipplei (T. whipplei) cause Whipple disease. T. whipplei infection can cause internal sores, also called lesions, and thickening of tissues in the small intestine.  - Anyone can get Whipple disease. However, it is more common in Caucasian men between 40 and 60 years old.  - Signs and symptoms of Whipple disease can vary widely from person to person. The most common symptoms of Whipple disease are      - diarrhea    - weight loss caused by malabsorption    - People with Whipple disease may have complications caused by malnutrition, which is due to damaged villi in the small intestine.  - The health care provider prescribes antibiotics to destroy the T. whipplei bacteria and treat Whipple disease.  - The health care provider usually prescribes intravenous (IV) antibiotics for the first 2 weeks of treatment. Most patients feel relief from symptoms within the first week or two.  - After a patient completes the IV antibiotics, the health care provider will prescribe long-term oral antibiotics.  - Most patients have good outcomes with an early diagnosis and complete treatment.

Question: What to do for Sexual and Urologic Problems of Diabetes ?
Answer: The nerve damage of diabetes may cause sexual or urologic problems.
                
- Sexual problems in men with diabetes include      - erectile dysfunction    - retrograde ejaculation    - Sexual problems in women with diabetes include      - decreased vaginal lubrication and uncomfortable or painful intercourse    - decreased or no sexual desire    - decreased or absent sexual response    - Urologic problems in men and women with diabetes include      - bladder problems related to nerve damage, such as overactive bladder, poor control of sphincter muscles, and urine retention    - urinary tract infections    - Controlling diabetes through diet, physical activity, and medications as needed can help prevent sexual and urologic problems.  - Treatment is available for sexual and urologic problems.

Question: What to do for Kidney Failure: What to Expect ?
Answer: For people who are on dialysis or approaching total kidney failure, adequate nutrition is important for maintaining energy, strength, healthy sleep patterns, bone health, heart health, and good mental health. A persons treatment will dictate the type of diet that should be followed:
                
- People on hemodialysis must watch how much fluid they drink and avoid eating foods with too much sodium, potassium, and phosphorus.  - In contrast, people on peritoneal dialysisa type of dialysis that uses the lining of the abdomen, or belly, to filter the blood inside the bodymay be able to eat more potassium-rich foods because peritoneal dialysis removes potassium from the body more efficiently than hemodialysis.  - Both hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis can remove proteins from the body, so anyone on either form of dialysis should eat protein-rich foods such as meat, fish, and eggs.
                
All dialysis centers and transplant clinics have a renal dietitian who specializes in helping people with kidney failure. People who are on dialysis or have a kidney transplant should talk with their clinics renal dietitian to develop a meal plan that will enhance the effectiveness of their treatment.
                
For more information about nutrition for people with advanced CKD or who are on dialysis, see NIDDK health topics, Nutrition for Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults or Kidney Failure: Eat Right to Feel Right on Hemodialysis.

Question: What to do for Kidney Failure: What to Expect ?
Answer: - Kidney failure can affect a persons health in several ways.  - When the kidneys stop working, waste products build up in the blood, a condition known as uremia.  - People with kidney failure can avoid most of the problems of uremia by having regular dialysis treatments and limiting foods that contain sodium, potassium, and phosphorus.  - Anemia is common in people with chronic kidney disease (CKD), as well as those on dialysis, because the damaged kidneys slow the produc-tion of the hormone erythropoietin (EPO), which helps the bone marrow make red blood cells.  - People with kidney failure, particularly dialysis patients, have far higher rates of heart and blood vessel problems than people without kidney problems.  - People who have uremia often lose their appetite.  - Many people treated with hemodialysis complain of itchy skin.  - Kidney failure weakens the bones due to a condition called chronic kidney disease-mineral and bone disorder.  - Kidney failure can cause pain, stiffness, and fluid in the joints. These symptoms result from amyloidosis, a condition in which an abnormal protein in the blood called amyloid is deposited in tissues and organs, including the joints and tendons.  - People on dialysis often have insomnia, sleep apnea syndrome, and restless legs syndrome.  - People who have kidney failure and depression should tell their health care provider because depression can often be treated with adjustments to the diet and dialysis dose, medications, counseling, and cognitive behavioral therapy.  - For people who are on dialysis or approaching total kidney failure, adequate nutrition is important for maintaining energy, strength, healthy sleep patterns, bone health, heart health, and good mental health.  - All dialysis centers and transplant clinics have a renal dietitian who specializes in helping people with kidney failure. People who are on dialysis or have a kidney transplant should talk with their clinics renal dietitian to develop a meal plan that will enhance the effectiveness of their treatment.

Question: What to do for Wilson Disease ?
Answer: People with Wilson disease should reduce their dietary copper intake by avoiding foods that are high in copper, such as
                
- shellfish  - liver  - mushrooms  - nuts  - chocolate
                
People should not eat these foods during the initial treatment and talk with the health care provider to discuss if they are safe to eat in moderation during maintenance treatment.
                
People with Wilson disease whose tap water runs through copper pipes or comes from a well should check the copper levels in the tap water. Water that sits in copper pipes may pick up copper residue, but running water lowers the level to within acceptable limits. People with Wilson disease should not use copper containers or cookware to store or prepare food or drinks.
                
To help ensure coordinated and safe care, people should discuss their use of complementary and alternative medical practices, including their use of vitamins and dietary supplements, with their health care provider. Read more at www.nccam. nih.gov/health. If the health care provider recommends taking any type of supplement or vitamin, a pharmacist can recommend types that do not contain copper.
                
People should talk with a health care provider about diet changes to reduce copper intake.
                
Liver Transplant
                
A liver transplant may be necessary in people when
                
- cirrhosis leads to liver failure  - acute liver failure happens suddenly  - treatment is not effective
                
A liver transplant is an operation to remove a diseased or an injured liver and replace it with a healthy one from another person, called a donor. A successful transplant is a life-saving treatment for people with liver failure.
                
Most liver transplants are successful. About 85 percent of transplanted livers are functioning after 1 year.2 Liver transplant surgery provides a cure for Wilson disease in most cases. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Liver Transplantation.

Question: What to do for Wilson Disease ?
Answer: - Wilson disease is a genetic disease that prevents the body from removing extra copper.  - Normally, the liver filters extra copper and releases it into bile. In Wilson disease, the liver does not filter copper correctly and copper builds up in the liver, brain, eyes, and other organs.  - Wilson disease is caused by an inherited autosomal recessive mutation, or change, in the ATP7B gene. In an autosomal recessive disease, the child has to inherit the gene mutation from both parents to have an increased likelihood for the disease.  - The signs and symptoms of Wilson disease vary, depending on what organs of the body are affected. People with Wilson disease may have      - liver-related signs and symptoms    - central nervous system-related signs and symptoms    - mental health-related signs and symptoms    - other signs and symptoms    - A health care provider will treat Wilson disease with a lifelong effort to reduce and control the amount of copper in the body. Treatment may include      - medications    - changes in eating, diet, and nutrition    - a liver transplant    - People with Wilson disease should reduce their dietary copper intake by avoiding foods that are high in copper, such as      - shellfish    - liver    - mushrooms    - nuts    - chocolate    - A person cannot prevent Wilson disease; however, people with a family history of Wilson disease, especially those with an affected sibling or parent, should talk with a health care provider about testing.

Question: What to do for Anemia of Inflammation and Chronic Disease ?
Answer: People with anemia caused by iron, vitamin B12, or folic acid deficiencies are usually advised to include sources of these nutrients in their diets.
                
Dietary sources of iron include
                
- beans  - breakfast cereals  - chicken  - enriched bread  - spinach  - turkey
                
Dietary sources of vitamin B12 include
                
- beef liver  - breakfast cereals  - chicken  - clams  - fish  - turkey
                
Dietary sources of folic acid include
                
- beans  - breakfast cereals  - chicken  - enriched bread  - rice  - turkey

Question: What to do for Anemia of Inflammation and Chronic Disease ?
Answer: - Anemia is a condition in which a person has a lower than normal number of red blood cells or the amount of hemoglobin in the red blood cells drops below normal, which prevents the bodys cells from getting enough oxygen.  - Anemia of inflammation and chronic disease (AI/ACD) is a type of anemia that commonly occurs with chronic illnesses, infections, cancer, or inflammatory disorders.  - AI/ACD typically develops slowly and, because it is usually mild, may cause few or no symptoms. Sometimes, AI/ACD can cause or contribute to fatigue, weakness, pale skin, a fast heartbeat, shortness of breath, and exercise intolerance.  - To diagnose AI/ACD, a health care provider orders a blood test called a complete blood count (CBC).  - AI/ACD often is not treated separately from the condition with which it occurs. In general, health care providers focus on treating the underlying illness.

Question: What to do for Urine Blockage in Newborns ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that a mothers eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing urine blockage in newborns.

Question: What to do for Urine Blockage in Newborns ?
Answer: - Many types of defects in the urinary tract can cause urine blockage:     - vesicoureteral reflux (VUR)    - ureteropelvic junction (UPJ) obstruction    - bladder outlet obstruction (BOO), such as posterior urethral valves (PUV)    - ureterocele    - Some babies are born with genetic conditions that affect several different systems in the body, including the urinary tract:     - prune belly syndrome (PBS)    - esophageal atresia (EA)    - congenital heart defects    - Urine blockage can also be caused by spina bifida and other birth defects that affect the spinal cord.  - Before leaving the hospital, a baby with urine blockage may urinate only small amounts or may not urinate at all. As part of the routine newborn exam, the health care provider may feel an enlarged kidney or find a closed urethra, which may indicate urine blockage. Sometimes urine blockage is not apparent until a child develops symptoms of a urinary tract infection (UTI).  - When a defect in the urinary tract blocks the flow of urine, the urine backs up and causes the ureters to swell, called hydroureter, and hydronephrosis.  - Defects of the urinary tract may be discovered before or after the baby is born.  - Prenatal tests include ultrasound, amniocentesis, and chorionic villus sampling (CVS).  - Different imaging techniques, including ultrasound, voiding cystourethrogram (VCUG), and radionuclide scan, can be used in infants and children to determine the cause of urine blockage.  - Treatment for urine blockage depends on the cause and severity of the blockage. Hydronephrosis discovered before the baby is born rarely requires immediate action, especially if it is only on one side. Treatments for more serious conditions include     - surgery    - antibiotics    - intermittent catheterization

Question: What to do for Gas in the Digestive Tract ?
Answer: Peoples eating habits and diet affect the amount of gas they have. For example, eating and drinking too fast may increase the amount of air swallowed, and foods that contain carbohydrates may cause some people to have more gas.
                
Tracking eating habits and symptoms can help identify the foods that cause more gas. Avoiding or eating less of these foods may help reduce gas symptoms.

Question: What to do for Gas in the Digestive Tract ?
Answer: - Gas is air in the digestive tract.  - Everyone has gas. However, many people think they pass gas too often and that they have too much gas. Having too much gas is rare.  - Gas in the digestive tract is usually caused by swallowing air and by the breakdown of certain foods in the large intestine by bacteria.  - Most foods that contain carbohydrates can cause gas. In contrast, fats and proteins cause little gas.  - Foods that produce gas in one person may not cause gas for someone else.  - The most common symptoms of gas are burping, passing gas, bloating, and abdominal pain or discomfort.  - Gas can be treated by reducing swallowed air, making dietary changes, or taking over-the-counter or prescription medications.

Question: What to do for Proctitis ?
Answer: Drinking plenty of fluids is important when diarrhea or frequent passage of loose or liquid stools occurs.
                
Avoiding caffeine and foods that are greasy, high in fiber, or sweet may lessen diarrhea symptoms. Some people also have problems digesting lactosethe sugar found in milk and milk productsduring or after a bout of diarrhea. Yogurt, which has less lactose than milk, is often better tolerated. Yogurt with active, live bacterial cultures may even help people recover from diarrhea more quickly.
                
If diarrhea symptoms improve, soft, bland foods can be added to the diet, including bananas, plain rice, boiled potatoes, toast, crackers, cooked carrots, and baked chicken without the skin or fat. If the diarrhea stops, a normal diet may be resumed if tolerated.

Question: What to do for Proctitis ?
Answer: - Proctitis is inflammation of the lining of the rectum, the lower end of the large intestine leading to the anus.  - Common causes of proctitis are sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), non-STD infections, anorectal trauma, ulcerative colitis and Crohns disease, radiation therapy, and antibiotic use.  - Treatment of proctitis depends on its cause; the goal of treatment is to reduce inflammation, control symptoms, and eliminate infection, if present.  - With proper medical attention, proctitis can be successfully treated.  - If infection is present with proctitis, antibiotics can be used to kill bacteria and antiviral medications can treat viral infections.  - People who receive anal sex can avoid getting STD-related proctitis by having their partner use a condom.  - If anorectal trauma caused proctitis, stopping the activity that triggered inflammation often will stop the inflammation and prevent recurrence.  - Some causes of proctitis cannot always be prevented, but their symptoms can be treated by a doctor.

Question: What to do for Gastroparesis ?
Answer: Changing eating habits can sometimes help control the severity of gastroparesis symptoms. A health care provider may suggest eating six small meals a day instead of three large ones. If less food enters the stomach each time a person eats, the stomach may not become overly full, allowing it to empty more easily. Chewing food well, drinking noncarbonated liquids with a meal, and walking or sitting for 2 hours after a mealinstead of lying downmay assist with gastric emptying.
                
A health care provider may also recommend avoiding high-fat and fibrous foods. Fat naturally slows digestion and some raw vegetables and fruits are more difficult to digest than other foods. Some foods, such as oranges and broccoli, contain fibrous parts that do not digest well. People with gastroparesis should minimize their intake of large portions of these foods because the undigested parts may remain in the stomach too long. Sometimes, the undigested parts form bezoars.
                
When a person has severe symptoms, a liquid or pured diet may be prescribed. As liquids tend to empty more quickly from the stomach, some people may find a pured diet helps improve symptoms. Pured fresh or cooked fruits and vegetables can be incorporated into shakes and soups. A health care provider may recommend a dietitian to help a person plan meals that minimize symptoms and ensure all nutritional needs are met.
                
When the most extreme cases of gastroparesis lead to severe nausea, vomiting, and dehydration, urgent care may be required at a medical facility where IV fluids can be given.
                

                
Medications
                
Several prescription medications are available to treat gastroparesis. A combination of medications may be used to find the most effective treatment.
                
Metoclopramide (Reglan). This medication stimulates stomach muscle contractions to help with gastric emptying. Metoclopramide also helps reduce nausea and vomiting. The medication is taken 20 to 30 minutes before meals and at bedtime. Possible side effects of metoclopramide include fatigue, sleepiness, and depression. Currently, this is the only medication approved by the FDA for treatment of gastroparesis. However, the FDA has placed a black box warning on this medication because of rare reports of it causing an irreversible neurologic side effect called tardive dyskinesiaa disorder that affects movement.
                
Erythromycin. This antibiotic, prescribed at low doses, may improve gastric emptying. Like metaclopramide, erythromycin works by increasing the contractions that move food through the stomach. Possible side effects of erythromycin include nausea, vomiting, and abdominal cramps.
                
Other medications. Other medications may be used to treat symptoms and problems related to gastroparesis. For example, medications known as antiemetics are used to help control nausea and vomiting.
                
Botulinum Toxin
                
Botulinum toxin is a nerve blocking agent also known as Botox. After passing an endoscope into the stomach, a health care provider injects the Botox into the pylorus, the opening from the stomach into the duodenum. Botox is supposed to help keep the pylorus open for longer periods of time and improve symptoms of gastroparesis. Although some initial research trials showed modest improvement in gastroparesis symptoms and the rate of gastric emptying following the injections, other studies have failed to show the same degree of effectiveness of the Botox injections.1
                
Gastric Electrical Stimulation
                
This treatment alternative may be effective for some people whose nausea and vomiting do not improve with dietary changes or medications. A gastric neurostimulator is a surgically implanted battery-operated device that sends mild electrical pulses to the stomach muscles to help control nausea and vomiting. The procedure may be performed at a hospital or outpatient center by a gastroenterologist. General anesthesia may be required. The gastroenterologist makes several tiny incisions in the abdomen and inserts a laparoscopea thin tube with a tiny video camera attached. The camera sends a magnified image from inside the stomach to a video monitor, giving the gastroenterologist a close-up view of the tissues. Once implanted, the settings on the battery-operated device can be adjusted to determine the settings that best control symptoms.
                
Jejunostomy
                
If medications and dietary changes dont work, and the person is losing weight or requires frequent hospitalization for dehydration, a health care provider may recommend surgically placing a feeding tube through the abdominal wall directly into a part of the small intestine called the jejunum. The surgical procedure is known as a jejunostomy. The procedure is performed by a surgeon at a hospital or outpatient center. Anesthesia is needed. The feeding tube bypasses the stomach and delivers a special liquid food with nutrients directly into the jejunum. The jejunostomy is used only when gastroparesis is extremely severe.
                
Parenteral Nutrition
                
When gastroparesis is so severe that dietary measures and other treatments are not helping, a health care provider may recommend parenteral nutritionan IV liquid food mixture supplied through a special tube in the chest. The procedure is performed by a surgeon at a hospital or outpatient center; anesthesia is needed. The surgeon inserts a thin, flexible tube called a catheter into a chest vein, with the catheter opening outside the skin. A bag containing liquid nutrients is attached to the catheter, and the nutrients are transported through the catheter into the chest vein and into the bloodstream. This approach is a less preferable alternative to a jejunostomy and is usually a temporary treatment to get through a difficult period of gastroparesis.

Question: What to do for Gastroparesis ?
Answer: - Gastroparesis, also called delayed gastric emptying, is a disorder that slows or stops the movement of food from the stomach to the small intestine.  - Gastroparesis can occur when the vagus nerve is damaged by illness or injury and the stomach muscles stop working normally. Food then moves slowly from the stomach to the small intestine or stops moving altogether.  - Most people diagnosed with gastroparesis have idiopathic gastroparesis, which means a health care provider cannot identify the cause, even with medical tests.  - Diabetes is the most common known cause of gastroparesis. People with diabetes have high levels of blood glucose, also called blood sugar. Over time, high blood glucose levels can damage the vagus nerve.  - The most common symptoms of gastroparesis are nausea, a feeling of fullness after eating only a small amount of food, and vomiting undigested food sometimes several hours after a meal. Other common symptoms include gastroesophageal reflux (GER), pain in the stomach area, abdominal bloating, and lack of appetite.  - Gastroparesis is diagnosed through a physical exam, medical history, blood tests, tests to rule out blockage or structural problems in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, and gastric emptying tests.  - Changing eating habits can sometimes help control the severity of gastroparesis symptoms. A health care provider may suggest eating six small meals a day instead of three large ones. When a person has severe symptoms, a liquid or pured diet may be prescribed.  - Treatment of gastroparesis may include medications, botulinum toxin, gastric electrical stimulation, jejunostomy, and parenteral nutrition.  - For people with gastroparesis and diabetes, a health care provider will likely adjust the persons insulin regimen.

Question: What to do for Abdominal Adhesions ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing abdominal adhesions. A person with a partial intestinal obstruction may relieve symptoms with a liquid or low- fiber diet, which is more easily broken down into smaller particles by the digestive system.

Question: What to do for Abdominal Adhesions ?
Answer: - Abdominal adhesions are bands of fibrous tissue that can form between abdominal tissues and organs. Abdominal adhesions cause tissues and organs in the abdominal cavity to stick together.  - Abdominal surgery is the most frequent cause of abdominal adhesions. Of patients who undergo abdominal surgery, 93 percent develop abdominal adhesions.  - In most cases, abdominal adhesions do not cause symptoms. When symptoms are present, chronic abdominal pain is the most common.  - A complete intestinal obstruction is life threatening and requires immediate medical attention and often surgery.  - Abdominal adhesions cannot be detected by tests or seen through imaging techniques such as x rays or ultrasound. However, abdominal x rays, a lower gastrointestinal (GI) series, and computerized tomography (CT) scans can diagnose intestinal obstructions.  - Surgery is the only way to treat abdominal adhesions that cause pain, intestinal obstruction, or fertility problems.

Question: What to do for Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: - Diabetes is a complex group of diseases with a variety of causes. Scientists believe genes and environmental factors interact to cause diabetes in most cases.  - People with diabetes have high blood glucose, also called high blood sugar or hyperglycemia. Diabetes develops when the body doesnt make enough insulin or is not able to use insulin effectively, or both.  - Insulin is a hormone made by beta cells in the pancreas. Insulin helps cells throughout the body absorb and use glucose for energy. If the body does not produce enough insulin or cannot use insulin effectively, glucose builds up in the blood instead of being absorbed by cells in the body, and the body is starved of energy.  - Prediabetes is a condition in which blood glucose levels or A1C levels are higher than normal but not high enough to be diagnosed as diabetes. People with prediabetes can substantially reduce their risk of developing diabetes by losing weight and increasing physical activity.  - The two main types of diabetes are type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. Gestational diabetes is a third form of diabetes that develops only during pregnancy.  - Type 1 diabetes is caused by a lack of insulin due to the destruction of insulin-producing beta cells. In type 1 diabetesan autoimmune diseasethe bodys immune system attacks and destroys the beta cells.  - Type 2 diabetesthe most common form of diabetesis caused by a combination of factors, including insulin resistance, a condition in which the bodys muscle, fat, and liver cells do not use insulin effectively. Type 2 diabetes develops when the body can no longer produce enough insulin to compensate for the impaired ability to use insulin.  - Scientists believe gestational diabetes is caused by the hormonal changes and metabolic demands of pregnancy together with genetic and environmental factors. Risk factors for gestational diabetes include being overweight and having a family history of diabetes.  - Monogenic forms of diabetes are relatively uncommon and are caused by mutations in single genes that limit insulin production, quality, or action in the body.  - Other types of diabetes are caused by diseases and injuries that damage the pancreas; certain chemical toxins and medications; infections; and other conditions.

Question: What to do for Renal Artery Stenosis ?
Answer: Limiting intake of fats, cholesterol, sodium, and sugar can help prevent atherosclerosis, which can lead to RAS. Most sodium in the diet comes from salt. A healthy diet that prevents people from becoming overweight or obese can also help prevent atherosclerosis. People with RAS that has caused decreased kidney function should limit their intake of protein, cholesterol, sodium, and potassium to slow the progression of kidney failure. More information about nutrition for CKD is provided in the NIDDK health topics, Nutrition for Early Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults and Nutrition for Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults. People should talk with their health care provider about what diet is right for them.

Question: What to do for Renal Artery Stenosis ?
Answer: - Renal artery stenosis (RAS) is the narrowing of one or both renal arteries. The renal arteries are blood vessels that carry blood to the kidneys from the aortathe main blood vessel that carries blood from the heart to arteries throughout the body.  - Renovascular hypertension (RVH) is high blood pressure caused by RAS.  - About 90 percent of RAS is caused by atherosclerosis. Most other cases of RAS are caused by fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD), which can cause blood vessels to narrow.  - RAS often has no symptoms until it becomes severe. The first symptoms of RAS are usually either high blood pressure or decreased kidney function, or both, but RAS is often overlooked as a cause of high blood pressure.  - People with RAS are at increased risk for chronic kidney disease (CKD), coronary artery disease, stroke, and peripheral vascular disease.  - Imaging tests used to diagnose RAS include duplex ultrasound, catheter angiogram, computerized tomographic angiography (CTA) scan, and magnetic resonance angiogram (MRA).  - Treatment for RAS includes lifestyle changes, medications, and surgery.

Question: What to do for Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your kidneys healthy ?
Answer: Your dietitian or doctor may suggest a special eating plan for you. You may have to avoid a diet high in protein, fat, sodium, and potassium.
                
- Cut back on protein, especially animal products such as meat. Damaged kidneys may fail to remove protein waste products from your blood. Diets high in protein make your kidneys work harder and fail sooner.  - Avoid a high-fat diet. High-fat diets are high in cholesterol. Cholesterol is a type of fat found in your bodys cells, blood, and many foods. Your body needs some cholesterol to work the right way. For example, your body uses cholesterol to make certain essential hormones and maintain nerve function. However, your body makes all the cholesterol it needs. If you often eat foods that are high in cholesterol, or if high cholesterol runs in your family, extra cholesterol in your blood can build up over time in the walls of your blood vessels and arteries. High blood cholesterol can lead to heart disease and stroke, some of the biggest health problems for people with diabetes.  - Avoid high-sodium foods. Sodium is a mineral found in salt and other foods. High levels of sodium may raise your blood pressure. Some high-sodium foods include canned food, frozen dinners, and hot dogs. The amount of sodium is listed on the food label, so you can see which foods have the highest levels. Try to limit your sodium to less than a teaspoon a day, or about 2,300 milligrams (mg) a day. If you have high blood pressure or are African American, middle-aged, or older, aim for no more than 1,500 mg of sodium per day. Ask your doctor or your dietitian about how much sodium you can have.  - Ask your doctor about the amount of potassium you need. Potassium is a mineral that helps your heartbeat stay regular and muscles work right. Healthy kidneys keep the right amount of potassium in your body. However, if you have severe kidney damage, high levels of potassium may cause an abnormal heart rhythm or even make your heart stop, called cardiac arrest. Some high-potassium foods include apricots, bananas, oranges, and potatoes.
                
More information about healthy eating and kidney disease is provided in the NIDDK health topics:   - Eat Right to Feel Right on Hemodialysis   - Nutrition for Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults   - Nutrition for Early Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults   - What I need to know about Eating and Diabetes

Question: What to do for Crohn's Disease ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition cause Crohn's disease symptoms. Good nutrition is important in the management of Crohn's disease, however. Dietary changes can help reduce symptoms. A health care provider may recommend that a person make dietary changes such as
                
- avoiding carbonated drinks  - avoiding popcorn, vegetable skins, nuts, and other high-fiber foods  - drinking more liquids  - eating smaller meals more often  - keeping a food diary to help identify troublesome foods
                
Health care providers may recommend nutritional supplements and vitamins for people who do not absorb enough nutrients.
                
To help ensure coordinated and safe care, people should discuss their use of complementary and alternative medical practices, including their use of dietary supplements and probiotics, with their health care provider. Read more at www.nccam.nih.gov/health/probiotics.
                
Depending on a person's symptoms or medications, a health care provider may recommend a specific diet, such as a
                
- high-calorie diet  - lactose-free diet  - low-fat diet  - low-fiber diet  - low-salt diet
                
People should speak with a health care provider about specific dietary recommendations and changes.

Question: What to do for Crohn's Disease ?
Answer: - Crohn's disease is a chronic, or long lasting, disease that causes inflammationirritation or swellingin the gastrointestinal (GI) tract.  - The exact cause of Crohn's disease is unknown. Researchers believe that factors such as an autoimmune reaction, genes, and environment may play a role in causing Crohn's disease.  - Crohn's disease can occur in people of any age. However, it is more likely to develop in people      - between the ages of 20 and 29    - who have a family member, most often a sibling or parent, with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)    - who smoke cigarettes    - The most common signs and symptoms of Crohn's disease are diarrhea, abdominal cramping and pain, and weight loss.  - A health care provider diagnoses Crohn's disease with the following:      - medical and family history    - physical exam    - lab tests    - upper GI series    - computerized tomography (CT) scan    - intestinal endoscopy    - Which treatment a person needs depends on the severity of the disease and symptoms.  - Good nutrition is important in the management of Crohn's disease. A health care provider may recommend that a person make dietary changes.  - People with Crohn's disease should talk with their health care provider about how often they should get screened for colon cancer.

Question: What to do for Financial Help for Diabetes Care ?
Answer: - Diabetes management and treatment is expensive. Many people who have diabetes need help paying for their care. For those who qualify, a variety of government and nongovernment programs can help cover health care expenses.  - Health insurance helps pay for medical care, including the cost of diabetes care. Health insurance options include private health insurance and government health insurance.  - Insurance companies sell private health insurance plans. Two types of private health insurance are group health insurance and individual health insurance.  - Medicare is a federal health insurance program that pays health care costs for eligible people who are age 65 or older, under age 65 with certain disabilities, or of any age with end-stage renal disease.  - Medicaid is a state health insurance program for those with low incomes and few assets. Each state runs its own program.  - The Childrens Health Insurance Program (CHIP) gives free or low-cost Medicaid to children whose parents earn too much for Medicaid, though not enough to pay for a health plan.  - Many local governments have public health departments that can help people who need medical care. Local resources such as charitable groups may offer financial help for some expenses related to diabetes.  - People should talk with their health care providers if they have problems paying for diabetes medications. Less expensive generic medications for diabetes, blood pressure, and cholesterol are available. If a health care provider prescribes medications that a person cannot afford, the person should ask the health care provider about cheaper alternatives.  - Health care providers may also be able to assist people who need help paying for their medications and diabetes testing supplies, such as glucose test strips, by providing free samples or referring them to local programs. Drug companies that sell insulin or diabetes medications often have patient assistance programs.

Question: What to do for Viral Hepatitis: A through E and Beyond ?
Answer: - Viral hepatitis is inflammation of the liver caused by the hepatitis A, B, C, D, or E viruses.  - Depending on the type of virus, viral hepatitis is spread through contaminated food or water, contact with infected blood, sexual contact with an infected person, or from mother to child during childbirth.  - Vaccines offer protection from hepatitis A and hepatitis B.  - No vaccines are available for hepatitis C, D, and E. Reducing exposure to the viruses offers the best protection.  - Hepatitis A and E usually resolve on their own. Hepatitis B, C, and D can be chronic and serious. Drugs are available to treat chronic hepatitis.

Question: What to do for Diabetic Neuropathies: The Nerve Damage of Diabetes ?
Answer: - Diabetic neuropathies are nerve disorders caused by many of the abnormalities common to diabetes, such as high blood glucose.  - Neuropathy can affect nerves throughout the body, causing numbness and sometimes pain in the hands, arms, feet, or legs, and problems with the digestive tract, heart, sex organs, and other body systems.  - Treatment first involves bringing blood glucose levels within the normal range. Good blood glucose control may help prevent or delay the onset of further problems.  - Foot care is an important part of treatment. People with neuropathy need to inspect their feet daily for any injuries. Untreated injuries increase the risk of infected foot sores and amputation.  - Treatment also includes pain relief and other medications as needed, depending on the type of nerve damage.  - Smoking increases the risk of foot problems and amputation. A health care provider may be able to provide help with quitting.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Hepatitis A ?
Answer: If you have hepatitis A, you should do things to take care of yourself, including eating a healthy diet. Avoid drinking alcohol, which can harm the liver. Talk with your doctor before taking vitamins and other supplements.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Hepatitis A ?
Answer: - Hepatitis A is a virus, or infection, that causes inflammation of the liver.  - Anyone can get hepatitis A, but some people are more likely to than others.  - You could get hepatitis A through contact with an infected persons stool.  - Most people do not have any symptoms of hepatitis A.  - Children younger than age 6 may have no symptoms of hepatitis A.  - Hepatitis A may cause mild, flulike symptoms in older children and adults.  - See a doctor right away if you or a child in your care has symptoms of hepatitis A.  - A blood test will show if you have hepatitis A.  - Hepatitis A usually gets better in a few weeks without treatment.  - You can avoid getting hepatitis A by receiving the hepatitis A vaccine.  - Tell your doctor and your dentist if you have hepatitis A.  - See your doctor right away if you think you have been in contact with the hepatitis A virus.

Question: What to do for Foodborne Illnesses ?
Answer: The following steps may help relieve the symptoms of foodborne illnesses and prevent dehydration in adults:
                
- drinking plenty of liquids such as fruit juices, sports drinks, caffeine-free soft drinks, and broths to replace fluids and electrolytes  - sipping small amounts of clear liquids or sucking on ice chips if vomiting is still a problem  - gradually reintroducing food, starting with bland, easy-to-digest foods such as rice, potatoes, toast or bread, cereal, lean meat, applesauce, and bananas  - avoiding fatty foods, sugary foods, dairy products, caffeine, and alcohol until recovery is complete
                
Infants and children present special concerns. Infants and children are likely to become dehydrated more quickly from diarrhea and vomiting because of their smaller body size. The following steps may help relieve symptoms and prevent dehydration in infants and children:
                
- giving oral rehydration solutions such as Pedialyte, Naturalyte, Infalyte, and CeraLyte to prevent dehydration  - giving food as soon as the child is hungry  - giving infants breast milk or fullstrength formula, as usual, along with oral rehydration solutions
                
Older adults and adults with weak immune systems should also drink oral rehydration solutions to prevent dehydration.

Question: What to do for Foodborne Illnesses ?
Answer: - Foodborne illnesses are infections or irritations of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract caused by food or beverages that contain harmful bacteria, parasites, viruses, or chemicals.  - Anyone can get a foodborne illness. However, some people are more likely to develop foodborne illnesses than others, including infants and children, pregnant women and their fetuses, older adults, and people with weakened immune systems.  - Symptoms of foodborne illnesses depend on the cause. Common symptoms of many foodborne illnesses include vomiting, diarrhea or bloody diarrhea, abdominal pain, fever, and chills.  - Foodborne illnesses may lead to dehydration, hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), and other complications. Acute foodborne illnesses may also lead to chronicor long lastinghealth problems.  - The only treatment needed for most foodborne illnesses is replacing lost fluids and electrolytes to prevent dehydration.  - Foodborne illnesses can be prevented by properly storing, cooking, cleaning, and handling foods.

Question: What to do for Cyclic Vomiting Syndrome ?
Answer: During the prodrome and vomiting phases of cyclic vomiting syndrome, a person will generally take in little or no nutrition by mouth. During the recovery phase, the person may be quite hungry as soon as the vomiting stops. As eating resumes, a person or his or her family should watch for the return of nausea. In some cases, a person can start with clear liquids and proceed slowly to a regular diet.
                
During the well phase, a balanced diet and regular meals are important. People should avoid any trigger foods and foods with additives. Eating small, carbohydrate-containing snacks between meals, before exercise, and at bedtime may help prevent future attacks. A health care provider will assist with planning a return to a regular diet.

Question: What to do for Cyclic Vomiting Syndrome ?
Answer: - Cyclic vomiting syndrome, sometimes referred to as CVS, is an increasingly recognized disorder with sudden, repeated attacksalso called episodesof severe nausea, vomiting, and physical exhaustion that occur with no apparent cause.  - The disorder can affect a person for months, years, or decades.  - The cause of cyclic vomiting syndrome is unknown.  - The severe vomiting and retching that define cyclic vomiting syndrome increase the chance of developing several complications, including dehydration, esophagitis, a Mallory-Weiss tear, and tooth decay.  - Intensity of symptoms will vary as a person cycles through four distinct phases of an episode.  - The main symptoms of cyclic vomiting syndrome are severe nausea and sudden vomiting lasting hours to days.  - People with cyclic vomiting syndrome should get plenty of rest and take medications to prevent a vomiting episode, stop an episode in progress, speed up recovery, or relieve associated symptoms.  - During the well phase, a balanced diet and regular meals are important. A health care provider will assist with planning a return to a regular diet.

Question: What to do for Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: - Diabetes is a complex group of diseases with a variety of causes. Scientists believe genes and environmental factors interact to cause diabetes in most cases.  - People with diabetes have high blood glucose, also called high blood sugar or hyperglycemia. Diabetes develops when the body doesnt make enough insulin or is not able to use insulin effectively, or both.  - Insulin is a hormone made by beta cells in the pancreas. Insulin helps cells throughout the body absorb and use glucose for energy. If the body does not produce enough insulin or cannot use insulin effectively, glucose builds up in the blood instead of being absorbed by cells in the body, and the body is starved of energy.  - Prediabetes is a condition in which blood glucose levels or A1C levels are higher than normal but not high enough to be diagnosed as diabetes. People with prediabetes can substantially reduce their risk of developing diabetes by losing weight and increasing physical activity.  - The two main types of diabetes are type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. Gestational diabetes is a third form of diabetes that develops only during pregnancy.  - Type 1 diabetes is caused by a lack of insulin due to the destruction of insulin-producing beta cells. In type 1 diabetesan autoimmune diseasethe bodys immune system attacks and destroys the beta cells.  - Type 2 diabetesthe most common form of diabetesis caused by a combination of factors, including insulin resistance, a condition in which the bodys muscle, fat, and liver cells do not use insulin effectively. Type 2 diabetes develops when the body can no longer produce enough insulin to compensate for the impaired ability to use insulin.  - Scientists believe gestational diabetes is caused by the hormonal changes and metabolic demands of pregnancy together with genetic and environmental factors. Risk factors for gestational diabetes include being overweight and having a family history of diabetes.  - Monogenic forms of diabetes are relatively uncommon and are caused by mutations in single genes that limit insulin production, quality, or action in the body.  - Other types of diabetes are caused by diseases and injuries that damage the pancreas; certain chemical toxins and medications; infections; and other conditions.

Question: What to do for Urinary Retention ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing urinary retention.

Question: What to do for Urinary Retention ?
Answer: - Urinary retention is the inability to empty the bladder completely.  - Urinary retention can be acute or chronic.  - Urinary retention can result from      - obstruction of the urethra    - nerve problems    - medications    - weakened bladder muscles    - The symptoms of acute urinary retention may include the following and require immediate medical attention:      - inability to urinate    - painful, urgent need to urinate    - pain or discomfort in the lower abdomen    - bloating of the lower abdomen    - The symptoms of chronic urinary retention may include      - urinary frequencyurination eight or more times a day    - trouble beginning a urine stream    - a weak or an interrupted urine stream    - an urgent need to urinate with little success when trying to urinate    - feeling the need to urinate after finishing urination    - mild and constant discomfort in the lower abdomen and urinary tract    - A health care provider diagnoses acute or chronic urinary retention with      - a physical exam    - postvoid residual measurement    - A health care provider may use the following medical tests to help determine the cause of urinary retention:      - cystoscopy    - computerized tomography (CT) scans    - urodynamic tests    - electromyography    - A health care provider treats urinary retention with      - bladder drainage    - urethral dilation    - urethral stents    - prostate medications    - surgery    - Complications of urinary retention and its treatments may include      - urinary tract infections (UTIs)    - bladder damage    - kidney damage    - urinary incontinence after prostate, tumor, or cancer surgery    - People can prevent urinary retention before it occurs by treating some of the potential causes.

Question: What to do for Proteinuria ?
Answer: - Proteinuria is a condition in which urine contains a detectable amount of protein.  - Proteinuria is a sign of chronic kidney disease (CKD).  - Groups at risk for proteinuria include African Americans, American Indians, Hispanics/Latinos, Pacific Islander Americans, older people, overweight people, people with diabetes or hypertension, and people who have a family history of kidney disease.  - Proteinuria may have no signs or symptoms. Laboratory testing is the only way to find out whether protein is in a person's urine.  - Several health organizations recommend regular checks for proteinuria so kidney disease can be detected and treated before it progresses.  - A person with diabetes, hypertension, or both should work to control blood glucose and blood pressure.

Question: What to do for Nephrotic Syndrome in Adults ?
Answer: Eating, diet, and nutrition have not been shown to play a role in causing or preventing nephrotic syndrome in adults. For people who have developed nephrotic syndrome, limiting intake of dietary sodium, often from salt, and fluid may be recommended to help reduce edema. A diet low in saturated fat and cholesterol may also be recommended to help control hyperlipidemia.

Question: What to do for Nephrotic Syndrome in Adults ?
Answer: - Nephrotic syndrome includes the following:      - proteinurialarge amounts of protein in the urine    - hyperlipidemiahigher than normal fat and cholesterol levels in the blood    - edema, or swelling, usually in the legs, feet, or ankles and less often in the hands or face    - hypoalbuminialow levels albumin in the blood    - Primary causes of nephrotic syndrome are diseases that affect only the kidneys, such as focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS). Secondary causes of nephrotic syndrome are diseases that affect many parts of the body, such as diabetes.  - In addition to proteinuria, hyperlipidemia, edema, and hypoalbumina, people with nephrotic syndrome may experience      - weight gain    - fatigue    - foamy urine    - loss of appetite    - The loss of different proteins from the body can lead to a variety of complications in people with nephrotic syndrome.  - Treating nephrotic syndrome includes addressing the underlying cause and taking steps to reduce high blood pressure, edema, high cholesterol, and the risks of infection. Treatment usually includes medications and changes in diet.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Diarrhea ?
Answer: To prevent dehydration when you have diarrhea, it is important to drink plenty of water, but you also need to drink fluids that contain sodium, chloride, and potassium.
                
- Adults should drink water, fruit juices, sports drinks, sodas without caffeine, and salty broths.  - Children should drink oral rehydration solutionsspecial drinks that contain salts and minerals to prevent dehydration. These drinks include Pedialyte, Naturalyte, Infalyte, and CeraLyte. These drinks are sold in most grocery stores and drugstores.
                
- bananas  - plain rice  - boiled potatoes  - toast  - crackers  - cooked carrots  - baked chicken without the skin or fat
                
If a certain food is the cause of diarrhea, try to avoid it.
                
- drinks with caffeine, such as coffee and cola  - high-fat or greasy foods, such as fried foods  - foods with a lot of fiber, such as citrus fruits  - sweet foods, such as cakes and cookies
                
During or after an episode of diarrhea, some people have trouble digesting lactose, the sugar in milk and milk products. However, you may be able to digest yogurt. Eating yogurt with active, live bacterial cultures may even help you feel better faster.
                
When babies have diarrhea, continue breastfeeding or formula feeding as usual.
                
After you have had diarrhea caused by a virus, problems digesting lactose may last up to 4 to 6 weeks. You may have diarrhea for a short time after you eat or drink milk or milk products.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Diarrhea ?
Answer: - Diarrhea is frequent, loose, and watery bowel movements.  - Acute diarrhea is a common problem. It usually lasts only 1 or 2 days, but it may last longer.  - Being dehydrated means your body does not have enough fluid to work properly. Dehydration can be serious, especially for children, older adults, and people with weakened immune systems.  - Diarrhea is treated by replacing lost fluids, salts, and minerals.  - See your health care provider if you have signs of dehydration, diarrhea for more than 2 days, severe pain in your abdomen or rectum, a fever of 102 degrees or higher, stools containing blood or pus, or stools that are black and tarry.  - Take your child to a health care provider right away if your child has signs of dehydration, diarrhea for more than 24 hours, a fever of 102 degrees or higher, stools containing blood or pus, or stools that are black and tarry.  - Two types of diarrhea can be prevented rotavirus diarrhea and travelers diarrhea.

Question: What to do for Alagille Syndrome ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing Alagille syndrome. However, these factors are important for people with Alagille syndrome, particularly children, who are malnourished, growing poorly, or have delayed puberty. Caregivers and parents of children with Alagille syndrome should try to maximize their children's potential for growth through good eating, diet, and nutrition.
                
A nutritionist or a dietitiana person with training in nutrition and dietcan work with someone with Alagille syndrome and his or her health care team to build an appropriate healthy eating plan. A person with Alagille syndrome may need to take dietary supplements or vitamins in addition to eating a set number of calories, based on the type of complications the person has. Researchers consider good nutrition to be one of the most important aspects of managing the disorder.
                
If potential liver problems are present, a person with Alagille syndrome should not drink alcoholic beverages without talking with his or her health care provider first.
                
Additionally, eating, diet, and nutrition play a part in overall health and preventing further health problems.

Question: What to do for Alagille Syndrome ?
Answer: - Alagille syndrome is a genetic condition that results in various symptoms in different parts of the body, including the liver.  - A person with Alagille syndrome has fewer than the normal number of small bile ducts inside the liver.  - In people with Alagille syndrome, the decreased number of bile ducts causes bile to build up in the liver, a condition also called cholestasis, leading to liver damage and liver disease.  - Alagille syndrome is caused by a gene mutation, or defect. Approximately 30 to 50 percent of people with Alagille syndrome have an inherited gene mutation, meaning it has been passed on by a parent.  - Alagille syndrome occurs in about one of every 30,000 live births. The disorder affects both sexes equally and shows no geographical, racial, or ethnic preferences.  - The gene mutations that cause Alagille syndrome may cause mild or subtle symptoms. Some people may not know they are affected.  - The signs and symptoms of Alagille syndrome and their severity vary, even among people in the same family sharing the same gene mutation.  - In some people, problems in the liver may be the first signs and symptoms of the disorder.  - The complications of Alagille syndrome include liver failure, portal hypertension, and growth problems.  - Ten to 30 percent of people with Alagille syndrome will eventually need a liver transplant.  - A health care provider diagnoses Alagille syndrome by performing a thorough physical exam and other tests.  - Genetic counseling can help family members understand how genetic test results may affect them individually and as a family.  - Treatment for Alagille syndrome includes medications and therapies that increase the flow of bile from the liver, promote growth and development in infants' and children's bodies, correct nutritional deficiencies, and reduce the person's discomfort.  - Scientists have not yet found a way to prevent Alagille syndrome.  - Caregivers and parents of children with Alagille syndrome should try to maximize their children's potential for growth through good eating, diet, and nutrition.

Question: What to do for Primary Hyperparathyroidism ?
Answer: Eating, diet, and nutrition have not been shown to play a role in causing or preventing primary hyperparathyroidism.
                
Vitamin D. Experts suggest correcting vitamin D deficiency in people with primary hyperparathyroidism to achieve a serum level of 25-hydroxy-vitamin D greater than 20 nanograms per deciliter (50 nanomoles per liter). Research is ongoing to determine optimal doses and regimens of vitamin D supplementation for people with primary hyperparathyroidism.
                
For the healthy public, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) guidelines for vitamin D intake are
                
- people ages 1 to 70 years may require 600 International Units (IUs)  - people age 71 and older may require as much as 800 IUs
                
The IOM also recommends that no more than 4,000 IUs of vitamin D be taken per day.
                
Calcium. People with primary hyperparathyroidism without symptoms who are being monitored do not need to restrict calcium in their diet. People with low calcium levels due to loss of all parathyroid tissue from surgery will need to take calcium supplements for the rest of their life.
                
To help ensure coordinated and safe care, people should discuss their use of complementary and alternative medicine practices, including their use of dietary supplements, with their health care provider. Tips for talking with health care providers are available through the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health.

Question: What to do for Primary Hyperparathyroidism ?
Answer: - Primary hyperparathyroidism is a disorder of the parathyroid glands, in which one or more of the parathyroid glands are overactive. As a result, the gland releases too much parathyroid hormone (PTH).  - High PTH levels trigger the bones to release increased calcium into the blood, causing blood calcium levels to rise above normal. T he loss of calcium from bones may weaken the bones. In response to high blood calcium levels, the kidneys excrete more calcium in the urine, which can lead to kidney stones.  - Most people with primary hyperparathyroidism have no symptoms. When symptoms appear, they are often mild and nonspecific, such as muscle weakness, fatigue, increased need for sleep, feelings of depression, or aches and pains in bones and joints.  - People with more severe primary hyperparathyroidism may have symptoms such as loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, constipation, confusion or impaired thinking and memory, and increased thirst and urination.  - Health care providers diagnose primary hyperparathyroidism when a person has high blood calcium and PTH levels.  - Surgery to remove the overactive parathyroid gland or glands is the only definitive treatment for the disorder. When performed by experienced endocrine surgeons, surgery cures primary hyperparathyroidism in more than 95 percent of operations. Some people who have mild primary hyperparathyroidism may not need immediate or even any surgery and can be safely monitored. People with primary hyperparathyroidism due to familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia should not have surgery.

Question: What to do for Urinary Incontinence in Men ?
Answer: - Urinary incontinence (UI) is the loss of bladder control, resulting in the accidental leakage of urine from the body.  - The urinary tract is the bodys drainage system for removing urine, which is composed of wastes and extra fluid.  - Every day, the kidneys filter about 120 to 150 quarts of blood to produce about 1 to 2 quarts of urine.  - To urinate, the brain signals the muscular bladder wall to tighten, squeezing urine out of the bladder. At the same time, the brain signals the sphincters to relax. As the sphincters relax, urine exits the bladder through the urethra.  - UI results when the brain does not properly signal the bladder, the sphincters do not squeeze strongly enough, or both.  - Urgency incontinence happens when a man urinates involuntarily after he has a strong desire, or urgency, to urinate.  - Stress incontinence results from movements that put pressure on the bladder and cause urine leakage, such as coughing, sneezing, laughing, or physical activity.  - Functional incontinence occurs when physical disability, external obstacles, or problems in thinking or communicating keep a person from reaching a place to urinate in time.  - When the bladder doesnt empty properly, urine spills over, causing overflow incontinence. Weak bladder muscles or a blocked urethra can cause this type of incontinence.  - Transient incontinence is UI that lasts a short time. Transient incontinence is usually a side effect of certain medications, drugs, or temporary conditions.  - UI occurs in 11 to 34 percent of older men.  - Men should tell a health care professional, such as a family practice physician, a nurse, an internist, or a urologist, they have UI, even if they feel embarrassed.  - Treatment depends on the type of UI. Some types of treatment include behavioral and lifestyle changes, bladder training, pelvic floor exercises, and urgency suppression.  - People who smoke should stop. Quitting smoking at any age promotes bladder health and overall health.

Question: What to do for Pregnancy and Thyroid Disease ?
Answer: During pregnancy, the body requires higher amounts of some nutrients to support the health of the mother and growing baby. Experts recommend pregnant women maintain a balanced diet and take a prenatal multivitamin and mineral supplement containing iodine to receive most nutrients necessary for thyroid health. More information about diet and nutrition during pregnancy is provided by the National Agricultural Library available at www.choosemyplate.gov/nutritional-needs-during-pregnancy.
                
Dietary Supplements
                
Because the thyroid uses iodine to make thyroid hormone, iodine is an important mineral for a mother during pregnancy. During pregnancy, the baby gets iodine from the mothers diet. Women need more iodine when they are pregnantabout 250 micrograms a day. In the United States, about 7 percent of pregnant women may not get enough iodine in their diet or through prenatal vitamins.3 Choosing iodized saltsalt supplemented with iodineover plain salt and prenatal vitamins containing iodine will ensure this need is met.
                
However, people with autoimmune thyroid disease may be sensitive to harmful side effects from iodine. Taking iodine drops or eating foods containing large amounts of iodinesuch as seaweed, dulse, or kelpmay cause or worsen hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism. More information about iodine is provided by the National Library of Medicine in the fact sheet, Iodine in diet.
                
To help ensure coordinated and safe care, people should discuss their use of dietary supplements with their health care provider. Tips for talking with health care providers are available at the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health's Time to Talk campaign.

Question: What to do for Pregnancy and Thyroid Disease ?
Answer: - Thyroid disease is a disorder that results when the thyroid gland produces more or less thyroid hormone than the body needs.  - Pregnancy causes normal changes in thyroid function but can also lead to thyroid disease.  - Uncontrolled hyperthyroidism during pregnancy can lead to serious health problems in the mother and the unborn baby.  - During pregnancy, mild hyperthyroidism does not require treatment. More severe hyperthyroidism is treated with antithyroid medications, which act by interfering with thyroid hormone production.  - Uncontrolled hypothyroidism during pregnancy can lead to serious health problems in the mother and can affect the unborn babys growth and brain development.  - Hypothyroidism during pregnancy is treated with synthetic thyroid hormone, thyroxine (T4).  - Postpartum thyroiditisinflammation of the thyroid glandcauses a brief period of hyperthyroidism, often followed by hypothyroidism that usually goes away within a year. Sometimes the hypothyroidism is permanent.

Question: What to do for Henoch-Schnlein Purpura ?
Answer: Eating, diet, and nutrition have not been shown to play a role in causing or preventing HSP.

Question: What to do for Henoch-Schnlein Purpura ?
Answer: - Henoch-Schnlein purpura (HSP) is a disease that causes small blood vessels in the body to become inflamed and leak.  - HSP is caused by an abnormal immune system response in which the bodys immune system attacks the bodys own cells and organs. The factors that cause this immune system response are not known.  - The symptoms of HSP include the following:      - rash    - digestive tract problems    - arthritis    - kidney involvement    - In children, the risk of kidney damage leading to long-term problems may be as high as 15 percent, but kidney failure affects only about 1 percent of children with HSP. Up to 40 percent of adults with HSP will have CKD or kidney failure within 15 years after diagnosis.  - A diagnosis of HSP is suspected when a person has the characteristic rash and one of the following:      - abdominal pain    - joint pain    - antibody deposits on the skin    - hematuria or proteinuria    - Antibody deposits on the skin can confirm the diagnosis of HSP.  - No specific treatment for HSP exists. The main goal of treatment is to relieve symptoms such as joint pain, abdominal pain, and swelling. People with kidney involvement may receive treatment aimed at preventing long-term kidney disease.

Question: What to do for Glomerular Diseases ?
Answer: - The kidneys filter waste and extra fluid from the blood.  - The filtering process takes place in the nephron, where microscopic blood vessel filters, called glomeruli, are attached to fluid-collecting tubules.  - A number of different disease processes can damage the glomeruli and thereby cause kidney failure. Glomerulonephritis and glomerulosclerosis are broad terms that include many forms of damage to the glomeruli.  - Some forms of kidney failure can be slowed down, but scarred glomeruli can never be repaired.  - Treatment for the early stages of kidney failure depends on the disease causing the damage.  - Early signs of kidney failure include blood or protein in the urine and swelling in the hands, feet, abdomen, or face. Kidney failure may be silent for many years.
                
The Nephrotic Syndrome
                
- The nephrotic syndrome is a condition marked by very high levels of protein in the urine; low levels of protein in the blood; swelling, especially around the eyes, feet, and hands; and high cholesterol.  - The nephrotic syndrome is a set of symptoms, not a disease in itself. It can occur with many diseases, so prevention relies on controlling the diseases that cause it.  - Treatment of the nephrotic syndrome focuses on identifying and treating the underlying cause, if possible, and reducing high cholesterol, blood pressure, and protein in the urine through diet, medication, or both.  - The nephrotic syndrome may go away once the underlying cause, if known, is treated. However, often a kidney disease is the underlying cause and cannot be cured. In these cases, the kidneys may gradually lose their ability to filter wastes and excess water from the blood. If kidney failure occurs, the patient will need to be on dialysis or have a kidney transplant.

Question: What to do for Glomerular Diseases ?
Answer: - The kidneys filter waste and extra fluid from the blood.  - The filtering process takes place in the nephron, where microscopic blood vessel filters, called glomeruli, are attached to fluid-collecting tubules.  - A number of different disease processes can damage the glomeruli and thereby cause kidney failure. Glomerulonephritis and glomerulosclerosis are broad terms that include many forms of damage to the glomeruli.  - Some forms of kidney failure can be slowed down, but scarred glomeruli can never be repaired.  - Treatment for the early stages of kidney failure depends on the disease causing the damage.  - Early signs of kidney failure include blood or protein in the urine and swelling in the hands, feet, abdomen, or face. Kidney failure may be silent for many years.
                
The Nephrotic Syndrome
                
- The nephrotic syndrome is a condition marked by very high levels of protein in the urine; low levels of protein in the blood; swelling, especially around the eyes, feet, and hands; and high cholesterol.  - The nephrotic syndrome is a set of symptoms, not a disease in itself. It can occur with many diseases, so prevention relies on controlling the diseases that cause it.  - Treatment of the nephrotic syndrome focuses on identifying and treating the underlying cause, if possible, and reducing high cholesterol, blood pressure, and protein in the urine through diet, medication, or both.  - The nephrotic syndrome may go away once the underlying cause, if known, is treated. However, often a kidney disease is the underlying cause and cannot be cured. In these cases, the kidneys may gradually lose their ability to filter wastes and excess water from the blood. If kidney failure occurs, the patient will need to be on dialysis or have a kidney transplant.

Question: What to do for Perineal Injury in Males ?
Answer: To prevent constipation, a diet with 20 to 35 grams of fiber each day helps the body form soft, bulky stool that is easier to pass. High-fiber foods include beans, whole grains and bran cereals, fresh fruits, and vegetables such as asparagus, brussels sprouts, cabbage, and carrots. For people prone to constipation, limiting foods that have little or no fiber, such as ice cream, cheese, meat, and processed foods, is also important. A health care provider can give information about how changes in eating, diet, and nutrition could help with constipation.

Question: What to do for Perineal Injury in Males ?
Answer: - Perineal injury is an injury to the perineum, the part of the body between the anus and the genitals, or sex organs. In males, the perineum is the area between the anus and the scrotum, the external pouch of skin that holds the testicles.  - Injury to the blood vessels, nerves, and muscles in the perineum can lead to complications such as      - bladder control problems    - sexual problems    - Common causes of acute perineal injury in males include      - perineal surgery    - straddle injuries    - sexual abuse    - impalement    - Chronic perineal injury most often results from a job- or sport-related practicesuch as bike, motorcycle, or horseback ridingor a long-term condition such as chronic constipation.  - Traumatic or piercing injuries may require surgery to repair damaged pelvic floor muscles, blood vessels, and nerves. Treatment for these acute injuries may also include antibiotics to prevent infection.  - In people with a chronic perineal injury, a health care provider will treat the complications of the condition, such as erectile dysfunction (ED) and urinary incontinence.  - Preventing perineal injury requires being aware of and taking steps to minimize the dangers of activities such as construction work or bike riding.  - The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, recommends noseless seats for people who ride bikes as part of their job.

Question: What to do for Solitary Kidney ?
Answer: People with a solitary kidney do not need to eat a special diet. However, people with reduced kidney function may need to make changes to their diet to slow the progression of kidney disease. More information about recommended dietary changes is provided in the NIDDK health topics, Nutrition for Early Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults and Nutrition for Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults, and on the National Kidney Disease Education Program website. People should talk with their health care provider about what diet is right for them.
                
Controlling Blood Pressure
                
People can control their blood pressure by not smoking, eating a healthy diet, and taking certain medications. Medications that lower blood pressure can also significantly slow the progression of kidney disease. Two types of blood pressurelowering medications, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), have proven effective in slowing the progression of kidney disease. Many people require two or more medications to control their blood pressure. In addition to an ACE inhibitor or ARB, a diuretica medication that helps the kidneys remove fluid from the bloodmay be prescribed. Beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, and other blood pressure medications may also be needed.
                
Preventing Injury
                
For people with a solitary kidney, loss of the remaining working kidney results in the need for dialysis or kidney transplant. People should make sure their health care providers know they have a solitary kidney to prevent injury from medications or medical procedures. People who participate in certain sports may be more likely to injure the kidney; this risk is of particular concern with children, as they are more likely to play sports. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends individual assessment for contact, collision, and limited-contact sports. Protective equipment may reduce the chance of injury to the remaining kidney enough to allow participation in most sports, provided that such equipment remains in place during activity. Health care providers, parents, and patients should consider the risks of any activity and decide whether the benefits outweigh those risks.

Question: What to do for Solitary Kidney ?
Answer: - When a person has only one kidney or one working kidney, this kidney is called a solitary kidney. The three main causes of a solitary kidney are birth defects, surgical removal of a kidney, and kidney donation.  - In general, people with a solitary kidney lead full, healthy lives. However, some people are more likely to develop kidney disease.  - People with a solitary kidney should be tested regularly for the following signs of kidney damage:      - albuminuria    - decreased glomerular filtration rate (GFR)    - high blood pressure    - People with a solitary kidney can protect their health by eating a nutritious diet, keeping their blood pressure at the appropriate level, and preventing injury to the working kidney.

Question: What to do for Overview of Kidney Disease in Children ?
Answer: For children with CKD, learning about nutrition is vital because their diet can affect how well their kidneys work. Parents or guardians should always consult with their childs health care team before making any dietary changes. Staying healthy with CKD requires paying close attention to the following elements of a diet:
                
- Protein. Children with CKD should eat enough protein for growth while limiting high protein intake. Too much protein can put an extra burden on the kidneys and cause kidney function to decline faster. Protein needs increase when a child is on dialysis because the dialysis process removes protein from the childs blood. The health care team recommends the amount of protein needed for the child. Foods with protein include      - eggs    - milk    - cheese    - chicken    - fish    - red meats    - beans    - yogurt    - cottage cheese    - Sodium. The amount of sodium children need depends on the stage of their kidney disease, their age, and sometimes other factors. The health care team may recommend limiting or adding sodium and salt to the diet. Foods high in sodium include      - canned foods    - some frozen foods    - most processed foods    - some snack foods, such as chips and crackers    - Potassium. Potassium levels need to stay in the normal range for children with CKD, because too little or too much potassium can cause heart and muscle problems. Children may need to stay away from some fruits and vegetables or reduce the number of servings and portion sizes to make sure they do not take in too much potassium. The health care team recommends the amount of potassium a child needs. Low-potassium fruits and vegetables include      - apples    - cranberries    - strawberries    - blueberries    - raspberries    - pineapple    - cabbage    - boiled cauliflower    - mustard greens    - uncooked broccoli    - High-potassium fruits and vegetables include      - oranges    - melons    - apricots    - bananas    - potatoes    - tomatoes    - sweet potatoes    - cooked spinach    - cooked broccoli    - Phosphorus. Children with CKD need to control the level of phosphorus in their blood because too much phosphorus pulls calcium from the bones, making them weaker and more likely to break. Too much phosphorus also can cause itchy skin and red eyes. As CKD progresses, a child may need to take a phosphate binder with meals to lower the concentration of phosphorus in the blood. Phosphorus is found in high-protein foods. Foods with low levels of phosphorus include      - liquid nondairy creamer    - green beans    - popcorn    - unprocessed meats from a butcher    - lemon-lime soda    - root beer    - powdered iced tea and lemonade mixes    - rice and corn cereals    - egg white    - sorbet    - Fluids. Early in CKD, a childs damaged kidneys may produce either too much or too little urine, which can lead to swelling or dehydration. As CKD progresses, children may need to limit fluid intake. The health care provider will tell the child and parents or guardians the goal for fluid intake.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics, Nutrition for Chronic Kidney Disease in Children and Kidney Failure: Eat Right to Feel Right on Hemodialysis.

Question: What to do for Overview of Kidney Disease in Children ?
Answer: - Kidney disease can affect children in various ways, ranging from treatable disorders without long-term consequences to life-threatening conditions. Acute kidney disease develops suddenly, lasts a short time, and can be serious with long-lasting consequences, or may go away completely once the underlying cause has been treated.  - Chronic kidney disease (CKD) does not go away with treatment and tends to get worse over time.  - Kidney disease in children can be caused by      - birth defects    - hereditary diseases    - infection    - nephrotic syndrome    - systemic diseases    - trauma    - urine blockage or reflux    - A health care provider diagnoses kidney disease in children by completing a physical exam, asking for a medical history, and reviewing signs and symptoms. To confirm diagnosis, the health care provider may order one or more of the following tests:      - urine tests    - blood test    - imaging studies    - kidney biopsy    - Treatment for kidney disease in children depends on the cause of the illness.  - Children with a kidney disease that is causing high blood pressure may need to take medications to lower their blood pressure. Improving blood pressure can significantly slow the progression of kidney disease. As kidney function declines, children may need treatment for anemia and growth failure.  - Children with kidney disease that leads to kidney failure must receive treatment to replace the work the kidneys do. The two types of treatment are dialysis and transplantation.  - For children with CKD, learning about nutrition is vital because their diet can affect how well their kidneys work. Parents or guardians should always consult with their childs health care team before making any dietary changes.

Question: What to do for Graves' Disease ?
Answer: Experts recommend that people eat a balanced diet to obtain most nutrients. More information about diet and nutrition is provided by the National Agricultural Library available at www.nutrition.gov.
                
Dietary Supplements
                
Iodine is an essential mineral for the thyroid. However, people with autoimmune thyroid disease may be sensitive to harmful side effects from iodine. Taking iodine drops or eating foods containing large amounts of iodinesuch as seaweed, dulse, or kelpmay cause or worsen hyperthyroidism. More information about iodine is provided by the National Library of Medicine in the fact sheet, Iodine in diet, available at www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus.
                
Women need more iodine when they are pregnantabout 250 micrograms a daybecause the baby gets iodine from the mothers diet. In the United States, about 7 percent of pregnant women may not get enough iodine in their diet or through prenatal vitamins.3 Choosing iodized saltsalt supplemented with iodineover plain salt and prenatal vitamins containing iodine will ensure this need is met.
                
To help ensure coordinated and safe care, people should discuss their use of dietary supplements, such as iodine, with their health care provider. Tips for talking with health care providers are available through the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health.
                
3 Zimmerman MB. Iodine deficiency in pregnancy and the effects of maternal iodine supplementation on the offspring: a review. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. 2009;89(2):668S672S.

Question: What to do for Graves' Disease ?
Answer: - Graves disease is the most common cause of hyperthyroidism in the United States.  - In Graves disease, the immune system stimulates the thyroid gland to make too much thyroid hormone.  - Common symptoms of hyperthyroidism include nervousness or irritability, fatigue or muscle weakness, heat intolerance, trouble sleeping, hand tremors, rapid and irregular heartbeat, frequent bowel movements or diarrhea, weight loss, and goiter.  - People with Graves disease may also have bulging eyes, a condition called Graves ophthalmopathy (GO).  - Graves disease is most often treated with radioiodine therapy, which gradually destroys the cells that make up the thyroid gland. Anti-thyroid medications and surgery to remove the thyroid are sometimes used.  - The eye problems associated with Graves disease may require separate treatment.  - A pregnant woman who has been treated with surgery or radioactive iodine prior to becoming pregnant should inform her health care provider so her baby can be monitored for thyroid-related problems later in the pregnancy.

Question: What to do for Diabetic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: - Diabetic kidney disease, also called diabetic nephropathy, is kidney disease caused by diabetes.  - People with diabetes have high blood glucose, also called high blood sugar or hyperglycemia.  - At the onset of diabetes, blood flow into the kidneys increases, which may strain the glomeruli and lessen their ability to filter blood.  - Higher levels of blood glucose lead to the buildup of extra material in the glomeruli, which increases the force of the blood moving through the kidneys and creates stress in the glomeruli.  - Many people with diabetes can develop high blood pressure, another factor in the development of kidney disease. High blood pressure, also called hypertension, is an increase in the amount of force that blood places on blood vessels as it moves through the entire body.  - Diabetic kidney disease takes many years to develop.  - People with diabetic kidney disease do not have any symptoms in the early stages. As kidney disease progresses, a person can develop edema, or swelling. Edema happens when the kidneys cannot get rid of the extra fluid and salt in the body. Edema can occur in the legs, feet, or ankles and less often in the hands or face.  - Once kidney function decreases further, symptoms may include      - appetite loss    - nausea    - vomiting    - drowsiness, or feeling tired    - trouble concentrating    - sleep problems    - increased or decreased urination    - generalized itching or numbness    - dry skin    - headaches    - weight loss    - darkened skin    - muscle cramps    - shortness of breath    - chest pain    - People can prevent or slow the progression of diabetic kidney disease by      - taking medication to control high blood pressure    - managing blood glucose levels    - making changes in their eating, diet, and nutrition    - losing weight if they are overweight or obese    - getting regular physical activity

Question: What to do for Simple Kidney Cysts ?
Answer: Eating, diet, and nutrition have not been shown to play a role in causing or preventing simple kidney cysts.

Question: What to do for Simple Kidney Cysts ?
Answer: - Simple kidney cysts are abnormal, fluid-filled sacs that form in the kidneys.  - Simple kidney cysts usually do not cause symptoms or harm the kidneys.  - Most simple kidney cysts are found during imaging tests done for other reasons.  - Treatment is not needed for simple kidney cysts that do not cause any symptoms.  - Simple kidney cysts that are causing symptoms or blocking the flow of blood or urine through the kidney may need to be treated using sclerotherapy or surgery.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Kidney Failure and How Its Treated ?
Answer: Eating healthy foods can help you keep up your energy and strength. All dialysis and transplant centers have a dietitian. The dietitian helps people with kidney failure learn about healthy food choices. You should talk with your centers dietitian to make a meal plan.
                
The best diet for you will depend on which kidney failure treatment you choose after talking with your doctor.
                
- Hemodialysis      - Limit how much liquid and water you drink. Fluid can build up in your body between hemodialysis sessions. Also, many foods contain water. The extra fluid in your body can cause swelling and high blood pressure. Extra fluid in your body makes your heart work harder.
                
-      - Limit sodium, or salt. Watch out for sodium in frozen foods and prepared meals. You can also find sodium in canned foods, hot dogs, and fast food. Sodium makes you thirsty, which makes you drink more water and other liquids than you should.    - Read more in the National Kidney Disease Education Program (NKDEP) fact sheet Sodium.    - Limit potassium. Potassium is found in many fruits and vegetables such as potatoes, tomatoes, oranges, and bananas. Too much potassium can make your heart beat unevenly. Hemodialysis does not remove potassium from your body well.    - Read more in the NKDEP fact sheet Potassium.    - Eat protein-rich foods such as meat, fish, and eggs. Hemodialysis removes protein from your body.    - Read more in the NKDEP fact sheet Protein.    - Limit phosphorus. Phosphorus helps your bones, blood vessels, and muscles work.    - However, too much phosphorus can make your bones weak. Limiting phosphorus can be hard. Foods that contain phosphorus, such as meat and milk, also contain protein that you need. You should be careful to eat enough protein, yet not so much that you get too much phosphorus. You can avoid other foods that contain phosphorus, such as cola, tea, beans, and nuts.    - Read more in the NKDEP fact sheet Phosphorus.    - Find healthy ways to add calories to your diet. Calories are found in all foods and give your body energy. Many people on hemodialysis do not have a good appetite and do not get enough calories. Vegetable oils are good sources of calories. Vegetable oils include olive oil, canola oil, and safflower oil. Use them on breads, rice, and noodles. Hard candy, sugar, honey, jam, and jelly provide calories and energy. However, if you have diabetes, speak with your doctor or dietitian before eating extra sweets.    - More information about nutrition for people who are on hemodialysis is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Eat Right to Feel Right on Hemodialysis.    - Peritoneal dialysis      - Drink as much water and other liquids as you need. If you are holding too much fluid or too little fluid, your doctor needs to know.    - Limit sodium to control your thirst and help prevent heart problems. You can use spices other than salt to flavor your food.
                
-      - You may need to eat more potassium-rich foods. Peritoneal dialysis removes potassium from your body. Talk with your doctor or dietitian about the right amount of potassium for you.    - Eat protein-rich foods. Peritoneal dialysis removes even more protein from your body than hemodialysis.    - Limit phosphorus to keep your bones strong.    - You may need to limit your calorie intake. The salty water also contains some sugar. Your body absorbs the sugar, which can cause you to gain weight.    - Kidney transplant      - Limit sodium to help prevent heart problems.    - You should be able to eat normal amounts of phosphorus and potassium. You may need to adjust the amounts if blood tests show a problem.
                
-      - Eat protein-rich foods to repair muscle breakdown and protect against infection.    - You may need to limit your calories. The medicines you take can make you gain weight.    - Conservative management      - Limit protein to prevent the buildup of wastes in your blood.
                
You may have other needs and limits, depending on how well your treatments work.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Kidney Failure and How Its Treated ?
Answer: - Kidney failure means your kidneys no longer filter your blood well enough to keep you healthy.  - The treatments for kidney failure are      - hemodialysis    - peritoneal dialysis    - a kidney transplant    - conservative management    - Hemodialysis uses a machine to filter your blood when your kidneys are too sick to filter any more.  - Peritoneal dialysis uses the lining of your belly to filter your blood inside your body.  - A kidney transplant places a healthy kidney from another person into your body.  - Conservative management means your doctors take care of you without dialysis or a transplant. The doctors may give you medicines that make you feel more comfortable.  - All dialysis and transplant centers have a dietitian. The dietitian helps people with kidney failure learn about healthy food choices.

Question: What to do for Peyronie's Disease ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing Peyronies disease.

Question: What to do for Peyronie's Disease ?
Answer: - Peyronies disease is a disorder in which scar tissue, called a plaque, forms in the penisthe male organ used for urination and sex.  - Medical experts do not know the exact cause of Peyronies disease. Many believe that Peyronies disease may be the result of      - acute injury to the penis    - chronic, or repeated, injury to the penis    - autoimmune diseasea disorder in which the bodys immune system attacks the bodys own cells and organs    - The following factors may increase a mans chance of developing Peyronies disease:      - vigorous sexual or nonsexual activities that cause microscopic injury to the penis    - certain connective tissue and autoimmune disorders    - a family history of Peyronies disease    - aging    - The signs and symptoms of Peyronies disease may include      - hard lumps on one or more sides of the penis    - pain during sexual intercourse or during an erection    - a curve in the penis either with or without an erection    - narrowing or shortening of the penis    - erectile dysfunction (ED)    - Complications of Peyronies disease may include      - the inability to have sexual intercourse    - ED    - anxiety, or stress, about sexual abilities or the appearance of the penis    - stress on a relationship with a sexual partner    - problems fathering a child because intercourse is difficult    - A urologist diagnoses Peyronies disease based on      - a medical and family history    - a physical exam    - imaging tests    - A urologist may treat Peyronies disease with nonsurgical treatments or surgery.  - Researchers do not know how to prevent Peyronies disease.

Question: What to do for Gastritis ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a major role in causing or preventing gastritis.

Question: What to do for Gastritis ?
Answer: - Gastritis is a condition in which the stomach liningknown as the mucosais inflamed, or swollen.  - Common causes of gastritis include Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection, damage to the stomach lining, and an autoimmune response.  - Some people who have gastritis have pain or discomfort in the upper part of the abdomen. However, many people with gastritis do not have any signs and symptoms.  - Erosive gastritis may cause ulcers or erosions in the stomach lining that can bleed. A person with any signs or symptoms of bleeding in the stomach should call or see a health care provider right away.  - A health care provider diagnoses gastritis based on a medical history, a physical exam, upper GI endoscopy, and other tests.  - Health care providers treat gastritis with medications to reduce the amount of acid in the stomach and treat the underlying cause.

Question: What to do for Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1 ?
Answer: - Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) is an inherited disorder that causes hormone-secreting tumors in the duodenum and the endocrine glands-most often the parathyroid, pancreas, and pituitary.  - Overactive parathyroid glands can lead to tiredness, weakness, muscle or bone pain, constipation, indigestion, kidney stones, or thinning of bones.  - Pancreatic and duodenal endocrine tumors called gastrinomas can cause dangerous stomach or intestinal ulcers.  - Pituitary tumors called prolactinomas can cause excessive production of breast milk or interfere with fertility in women or with sex drive and fertility in men.  - Although many tumors associated with MEN1 are benign, about half of people with MEN1 will eventually develop a cancerous tumor.  - MEN1 carriers can be detected through gene testing or other laboratory tests.  - MEN1 cannot be cured, but regular testing can detect the problems caused by MEN1 tumors many years before serious complications develop. Careful monitoring enables doctors to adjust an individual's treatment as needed.

Question: What to do for Autoimmune Hepatitis ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing autoimmune hepatitis.

Question: What to do for Autoimmune Hepatitis ?
Answer: - Autoimmune hepatitis is a chronicor long lastingdisease in which the body's immune system attacks the liver and causes inflammation and damage.  - Autoimmune hepatitis is a serious condition that may worsen over time if not treated. Autoimmune hepatitis can lead to cirrhosis and liver failure.  - Autoimmune hepatitis is more common in females. The disease can occur at any age and affects all ethnic groups.  - Autoimmune hepatitis is classified as type 1 or type 2.  - A health care provider will make a diagnosis of autoimmune hepatitis based on symptoms, a physical exam, blood tests, and a liver biopsy.  - A person usually needs blood tests for an exact diagnosis because a person with autoimmune hepatitis can have the same symptoms as those of other liver diseases or metabolic disorders.  - Treatment for autoimmune hepatitis includes medication to suppress, or slow down, an overactive immune system.  - Treatment works best when autoimmune hepatitis is diagnosed early.  - People with autoimmune hepatitis generally respond to standard treatment and the disease can be controlled in most cases.  - In some people, autoimmune hepatitis progresses to cirrhosis and end-stage liver failure, and a liver transplant may be necessary.

Question: What to do for Dumping Syndrome ?
Answer: The first step to minimizing symptoms of dumping syndrome involves changes in eating, diet, and nutrition, and may include
                
- eating five or six small meals a day instead of three larger meals  - delaying liquid intake until at least 30 minutes after a meal  - increasing intake of protein, fiber, and complex carbohydratesfound in starchy foods such as oatmeal and rice  - avoiding simple sugars such as table sugar, which can be found in candy, syrup, sodas, and juice beverages  - increasing the thickness of food by adding pectin or guar gumplant extracts used as thickening agents
                
Some people find that lying down for 30 minutes after meals also helps reduce symptoms.
                
Medication
                
A health care provider may prescribe octreotide acetate (Sandostatin) to treat dumping syndrome symptoms. The medication works by slowing gastric emptying and inhibiting the release of insulin and other GI hormones. Octreotide comes in short- and long-acting formulas. The short-acting formula is injected subcutaneouslyunder the skinor intravenouslyinto a veintwo to four times a day. A health care provider may perform the injections or may train the patient or patient's friend or relative to perform the injections. A health care provider injects the long-acting formula into the buttocks muscles once every 4 weeks. Complications of octreotide treatment include increased or decreased blood glucose levels, pain at the injection site, gallstones, and fatty, foul-smelling stools.
                
Surgery
                
A person may need surgery if dumping syndrome is caused by previous gastric surgery or if the condition is not responsive to other treatments. For most people, the type of surgery depends on the type of gastric surgery performed previously. However, surgery to correct dumping syndrome often has unsuccessful results.

Question: What to do for Dumping Syndrome ?
Answer: - Dumping syndrome occurs when food, especially sugar, moves too fast from the stomach to the duodenumthe first part of the small intestinein the upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract.  - Dumping syndrome has two forms, based on when symptoms occur:      - early dumping syndromeoccurs 10 to 30 minutes after a meal    - late dumping syndromeoccurs 2 to 3 hours after a meal    - People who have had surgery to remove or bypass a significant part of the stomach are more likely to develop dumping syndrome. Other conditions that impair how the stomach stores and empties itself of food, such as nerve damage caused by esophageal surgery, can also cause dumping syndrome.  - Early dumping syndrome symptoms include      - nausea    - vomiting    - abdominal pain and cramping    - diarrhea    - feeling uncomfortably full or bloated after a meal    - sweating    - weakness    - dizziness    - flushing, or blushing of the face or skin    - rapid or irregular heartbeat    - The symptoms of late dumping syndrome include      - hypoglycemia    - sweating    - weakness    - rapid or irregular heartbeat    - flushing    - dizziness    - Treatment for dumping syndrome includes changes in eating, diet, and nutrition; medication; and, in some cases, surgery. Many people with dumping syndrome have mild symptoms that improve over time with simple dietary changes.

Question: What to do for Kidney Dysplasia ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing kidney dysplasia.

Question: What to do for Kidney Dysplasia ?
Answer: - Kidney dysplasia is a condition in which the internal structures of one or both of a fetus kidneys do not develop normally while in the womb.  - Genetic factors can cause kidney dysplasia.  - Genetic syndromes that affect multiple body systems can also cause kidney dysplasia.  - A baby may also develop kidney dysplasia if his or her mother takes certain prescription medications during pregnancy, such as some used to treat seizures and high blood pressure.  - Many babies with kidney dysplasia in only one kidney have no signs of the condition.  - Health care providers may be able to diagnose kidney dysplasia during a womans pregnancy using a fetal ultrasound, also called a fetal sonogram.  - Health care providers do not always diagnose kidney dysplasia before a baby is born.  - If the condition is limited to one kidney and the baby has no signs of kidney dysplasia, no treatment may be necessary.  - Researchers have not found a way to prevent kidney dysplasia caused by genetic factors or certain genetic syndromes.  - Pregnant women can prevent kidney dysplasia by avoiding the use of certain prescription medications or illegal drugs during pregnancy.  - The long-term outlook for a child with kidney dysplasia in only one kidney is generally good.  - The long-term outlook for a child with kidney dysplasia in both kidneys is different from the long-term outlook for a child with one dysplastic kidney. A child with kidney dysplasia in both kidneys      - is more likely to develop chronic kidney disease (CKD)    - needs close follow-up with a pediatric nephrologist    - may eventually need dialysis or a kidney transplant

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Kidney Stones ?
Answer: You can help prevent kidney stones by making changes in how much you consume of the following:
                
- fluids  - sodium  - animal protein  - calcium  - oxalate
                
Drinking enough fluids each day is the best way to help prevent most types of kidney stones. You should drink 2 to 3 liters of fluid a day. If you had cystine stones, you may need to drink even more.
                
Though water is best, other fluids may also help prevent kidney stones, such as orange juice or lemonade. Talk with your health care provider if you cant drink the recommended amount due to other health problems, such as urinary incontinence, urinary frequency, or kidney failure.
                
You can make the following changes to your diet based on the type of kidney stone you had:
                
Calcium Oxalate Stones
                
- reduce sodium  - reduce animal protein, such as meat, eggs, and fish  - get enough calcium from food or take calcium supplements with food  - avoid foods high in oxalate, such as spinach, rhubarb, nuts, and wheat bran
                
Calcium Phosphate Stones
                
- reduce sodium  - reduce animal protein  - get enough calcium from food or take calcium supplements with food
                
Uric Acid Stones
                
- limit animal protein
                
More information about how changes in diet affect kidney stone formation is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Diet for Kidney Stone Prevention.
                

                
Medicines
                
Your doctor may prescribe medicines based on the type of kidney stone you had and any health problems you have that make you more likely to form a stone.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Kidney Stones ?
Answer: - A kidney stone is a solid piece of material that forms in a kidney when there are high levels of certain substances in the urine. These substances are normally found in the urine and do not cause problems at lower levels.  - Kidney stones are caused by high levels of calcium, oxalate, and phosphorus in the urine.  - You may have a kidney stone if you      - have pain while urinating    - see blood in your urine    - feel a sharp pain in your back or lower abdomen    - If you have a small stone that passes on its own easily, you may not have symptoms at all.  - To diagnose kidney stones, your doctor will do a physical exam and ask about your medical history. The doctor may perform urine, blood, and imaging tests to complete the diagnosis.  - The treatment for kidney stones usually depends on their size and what they are made of. You may need pain medicine. You should also drink lots of fluids. If you have a large kidney stone or your urinary tract is blocked, the urologist can remove the stone or break it into small pieces with shock wave lithotripsy, ureteroscopy, or percutaneous nephrolithotomy.  - To prevent kidney stones, you need to know what caused your kidney stone.  - Once you know what type of kidney stone you had, you can make changes in your eating, diet, and nutrition and take medicines to prevent future kidney stones.

Question: What to do for Porphyria ?
Answer: People with an acute porphyria should eat a diet with an average-to-high level of carbohydrates. The recommended dietary allowance for carbohydrates is 130 g per day for adults and children 1 year of age or older; pregnant and breastfeeding women need higher intakes.2 People should avoid limiting intake of carbohydrates and calories, even for short periods of time, as this type of dieting or fasting can trigger symptoms. People with an acute porphyria who want to lose weight should talk with their health care providers about diets they can follow to lose weight gradually.
                
People undergoing therapeutic phlebotomies should drink plenty of milk, water, or juice before and after each procedure.
                
A health care provider may recommend vitamin and mineral supplements for people with a cutaneous porphyria.

Question: What to do for Porphyria ?
Answer: - Porphyrias are rare disorders that affect mainly the skin or nervous system and may cause abdominal pain.  - Each of the eight types of porphyria corresponds to low levels of a specific enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway.  - The exact rates of porphyria are unknown and vary around the world. For example, porphyria cutanea tarda is most common in the United States, and variegate porphyria is most common in South America.  - Most porphyrias result from inheriting an abnormal gene, also called a gene mutation, from one parent.  - Porphyria cutanea tarda is usually an acquired disorder, meaning factors other than genes cause the enzyme deficiency.  - Symptoms of cutaneous porphyrias include      - oversensitivity to sunlight    - blisters on exposed areas of the skin    - itching and swelling on exposed areas of the skin    - Symptoms of acute porphyrias include      - pain in the abdomen    - pain in the chest, limbs, or back    - nausea and vomiting    - constipation    - urinary retention    - confusion    - hallucinations    - seizures and muscle weakness    - A health care provider diagnoses porphyria with blood, urine, and stool tests.  - Treatment for porphyria depends on the type of porphyria the person has and the severity of the symptoms.

Question: What to do for Causes of Diabetes ?
Answer: - Diabetes is a complex group of diseases with a variety of causes. Scientists believe genes and environmental factors interact to cause diabetes in most cases.  - People with diabetes have high blood glucose, also called high blood sugar or hyperglycemia. Diabetes develops when the body doesnt make enough insulin or is not able to use insulin effectively, or both.  - Insulin is a hormone made by beta cells in the pancreas. Insulin helps cells throughout the body absorb and use glucose for energy. If the body does not produce enough insulin or cannot use insulin effectively, glucose builds up in the blood instead of being absorbed by cells in the body, and the body is starved of energy.  - Prediabetes is a condition in which blood glucose levels or A1C levels are higher than normal but not high enough to be diagnosed as diabetes. People with prediabetes can substantially reduce their risk of developing diabetes by losing weight and increasing physical activity.  - The two main types of diabetes are type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. Gestational diabetes is a third form of diabetes that develops only during pregnancy.  - Type 1 diabetes is caused by a lack of insulin due to the destruction of insulin-producing beta cells. In type 1 diabetesan autoimmune diseasethe bodys immune system attacks and destroys the beta cells.  - Type 2 diabetesthe most common form of diabetesis caused by a combination of factors, including insulin resistance, a condition in which the bodys muscle, fat, and liver cells do not use insulin effectively. Type 2 diabetes develops when the body can no longer produce enough insulin to compensate for the impaired ability to use insulin.  - Scientists believe gestational diabetes is caused by the hormonal changes and metabolic demands of pregnancy together with genetic and environmental factors. Risk factors for gestational diabetes include being overweight and having a family history of diabetes.  - Monogenic forms of diabetes are relatively uncommon and are caused by mutations in single genes that limit insulin production, quality, or action in the body.  - Other types of diabetes are caused by diseases and injuries that damage the pancreas; certain chemical toxins and medications; infections; and other conditions.

Question: What to do for Diabetes, Heart Disease, and Stroke ?
Answer: - If you have diabetes, you are at least twice as likely as other people to have heart disease or a stroke.  - Controlling the ABCs of diabetesA1C (blood glucose), blood pressure, and cholesterol-can cut your risk of heart disease and stroke.  - Choosing foods wisely, quitting smoking, and taking medications (if needed) can all help lower your risk of heart disease and stroke.  - If you have any warning signs of a heart attack or a stroke, get medical care immediatelydon't delay. Early treatment of heart attack and stroke in a hospital emergency room can reduce damage to the heart and the brain.

Question: What to do for Diabetes, Heart Disease, and Stroke ?
Answer: - If you have diabetes, you are at least twice as likely as other people to have heart disease or a stroke.  - Controlling the ABCs of diabetesA1C (blood glucose), blood pressure, and cholesterol-can cut your risk of heart disease and stroke.  - Choosing foods wisely, quitting smoking, and taking medications (if needed) can all help lower your risk of heart disease and stroke.  - If you have any warning signs of a heart attack or a stroke, get medical care immediatelydon't delay. Early treatment of heart attack and stroke in a hospital emergency room can reduce damage to the heart and the brain.

Question: What to do for Diarrhea ?
Answer: Until diarrhea subsides, avoiding caffeine and foods that are greasy, high in fiber, or sweet may lessen symptoms. These foods can aggravate diarrhea. Some people also have problems digesting lactose during or after a bout of diarrhea. Yogurt, which has less lactose than milk, is often better tolerated. Yogurt with active, live bacterial cultures may even help people recover from diarrhea more quickly.
                
As symptoms improve, soft, bland foods can be added to the diet, including bananas, plain rice, boiled potatoes, toast, crackers, cooked carrots, and baked chicken without the skin or fat. For children, the health care provider may also recommend a bland diet. Once the diarrhea stops, the health care provider will likely encourage children to return to a normal and healthy diet if it can be tolerated. Infants with diarrhea should be given breast milk or full-strength formula as usual, along with oral rehydration solutions. Some children recovering from viral diarrheas have problems digesting lactose for up to a month or more.

Question: What to do for Diarrhea ?
Answer: - Diarrhea is loose, watery stools. Having diarrhea means passing loose stools three or more times a day.  - Diarrhea is a common problem that usually goes away on its own.  - The most common causes of diarrhea include bacterial, viral, and parasitic infections; functional bowel disorders; intestinal diseases; food intolerances and sensitivities; and reactions to medicines.  - Diarrhea can cause dehydration, which is particularly dangerous in children, older adults, and people with weakened immune systems.  - Treatment involves replacing lost fluids and electrolytes. Depending on the cause of the problem, medication may also be needed to stop the diarrhea or treat an infection.  - Children with diarrhea should be given oral rehydration solutions to replace lost fluids and electrolytes.  - Adults with any of the following symptoms should see a health care provider: signs of dehydration, diarrhea for more than 2 days, severe pain in the abdomen or rectum, a fever of 102 degrees or higher, stools containing blood or pus, or stools that are black and tarry.  - Children with any of the following symptoms should see a health care provider: signs of dehydration, diarrhea for more than 24 hours, a fever of 102 degrees or higher, stools containing blood or pus, or stools that are black and tarry.  - People can take steps to prevent two types of diarrhearotavirus diarrhea and travelers diarrhea.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Preparing for Pregnancy if I Have Diabetes ?
Answer: - If you have diabetes, the best time to control your blood glucose, also called blood sugar, is before you get pregnant. High blood glucose levels can be harmful to your baby during the first weeks of pregnancyeven before you know you are pregnant.  - Keeping your blood glucose as close to normal as possible before and during your pregnancy is the most important thing you can do to stay healthy and have a healthy baby.  - Before you get pregnant, you can plan and prepare for having a healthy pregnancy and a healthy baby. If you have diabetes and are already pregnant, you can make sure you are doing everything you can to take care of yourself and your diabetes during your pregnancy.  - Regular visits with members of a health care team who are experts in diabetes and pregnancy will ensure you get the best care. Your health care team can help you learn how to use a healthy eating plan, physical activity, and medicines to reach your blood glucose targets before and during pregnancy.  - During pregnancy, the safest diabetes medicine is insulin. Your health care team will work with you to make a personalized insulin routine. Some medicines are not safe during pregnancy and should be stopped before you get pregnant. Your doctor can tell you which medicines to stop taking.  - You will have tests throughout your pregnancy to check your baby's health.  - You can give your baby a healthy start by breastfeeding.

Question: What to do for Biliary Atresia ?
Answer: Infants with biliary atresia often have nutritional deficiencies and require special diets as they grow up. They may need a higher calorie diet, because biliary atresia leads to a faster metabolism. The disease also prevents them from digesting fats and can lead to protein and vitamin deficiencies. Vitamin supplements may be recommended, along with adding medium-chain triglyceride oil to foods, liquids, and infant formula. The oil adds calories and is easier to digest without bile than other types of fats. If an infant or child is too sick to eat, a feeding tube may be recommended to provide high-calorie liquid meals.
                
After a liver transplant, most infants and children can go back to their usual diet. Vitamin supplements may still be needed because the medications used to keep the body from rejecting the new liver can affect calcium and magnesium levels.

Question: What to do for Biliary Atresia ?
Answer: - Biliary atresia is a life-threatening condition in infants in which the bile ducts inside or outside the liver do not have normal openings.  - The first symptom of biliary atresia is jaundicewhen the skin and whites of the eyes turn yellow. Other symptoms include dark urine, gray or white stools, and slow weight gain and growth.  - Biliary atresia likely has multiple causes, though none is yet proven.  - No single test can definitively diagnose biliary atresia, so a series of tests is needed, including a blood test, abdominal x ray, ultrasound, liver scans, liver biopsy, and diagnostic surgery.  - Initial treatment for biliary atresia is usually the Kasai procedure, an operation where the bile ducts are removed and a loop of intestine is brought up to replace them.  - The definitive treatment for biliary atresia is liver transplant.  - After a liver transplant, a regimen of medications is used to prevent the immune system from rejecting the new liver. Health care providers may also prescribe blood pressure medications and antibiotics, along with special diets and vitamin supplements.

Question: What to do for Pyelonephritis: Kidney Infection ?
Answer: Eating, diet, and nutrition have not been shown to play a role in causing or preventing pyelonephritis.

Question: What to do for Pyelonephritis: Kidney Infection ?
Answer: - Pyelonephritis is a type of urinary tract infection that affects one or both kidneys.  - Pyelonephritis is caused by a bacterium or virus infecting the kidneys. Though many bacteria and viruses can cause pyelonephritis, the bacterium Escherichia coli is often the cause. Bacteria and viruses can move to the kidneys from the bladder or can be carried through the bloodstream from other parts of the body.  - Symptoms of pyelonephritis can vary depending on a persons age and may include the following:      - fever    - vomiting    - back, side, and groin pain    - chills    - nausea    - frequent, painful urination    - Children younger than 2 years old may only have a high fever without symptoms related to the urinary tract. Older people may not have any symptoms related to the urinary tract either; instead, they may exhibit confusion, disordered speech, or hallucinations.  - Most people with pyelonephritis do not have complications if appropriately treated with bacteria-fighting medications called antibiotics.

Question: What to do for Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis ?
Answer: - Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) inflames, scars, and blocks bile ducts inside and outside the liver.  - When bile ducts become blocked, bile builds up in the liver and damages liver cells.  - PSC can lead to vitamin deficiencies, infections, bile duct cancer, cirrhosis, liver failure, and the need for a liver transplant.  - The cause of PSC is not known.  - Many people with PSC also have ulcerative colitis, an inflammatory bowel disease.  - Treatment includes medications to treat symptoms and complications of PSC.

Question: What to do for Ectopic Kidney ?
Answer: Eating, diet, and nutrition have not been shown to play a role in causing or preventing an ectopic kidney.

Question: What to do for Ectopic Kidney ?
Answer: - An ectopic kidney is a birth defect in which a kidney is located below, above, or on the opposite side of its usual position.  - Factors that may lead to an ectopic kidney include      - poor development of a kidney bud    - a defect in the kidney tissue responsible for prompting the kidney to move to its usual position    - genetic abnormalities    - the mother being sick or being exposed to an agent, such as a drug or chemical, that causes birth defects    - An ectopic kidney may not cause any symptoms and may function normally, even though it is not in its usual position.  - Possible complications of an ectopic kidney include problems with urine drainage from that kidney. Abnormal urine flow and the placement of the ectopic kidney can lead to various problems such as infection, stones, kidney damage, and injury from trauma.  - No treatment for an ectopic kidney is needed if urinary function is normal and no blockage of the urinary tract is present. Surgery or other treatment may be needed if there is an obstruction, reflux, or extensive damage to the kidney.

Question: What to do for Viral Gastroenteritis ?
Answer: The following steps may help relieve the symptoms of viral gastroenteritis in adults:
                
- drinking plenty of liquids such as fruit juices, sports drinks, caffeine-free soft drinks, and broths to replace fluids and electrolytes  - sipping small amounts of clear liquids or sucking on ice chips if vomiting is still a problem  - gradually reintroducing food, starting with bland, easy-to-digest foods such as rice, potatoes, toast or bread, cereal, lean meat, applesauce, and bananas  - avoiding fatty foods, sugary foods, dairy products, caffeine, and alcohol until recovery is complete  - getting plenty of rest
                
Children present special concerns. Because of their smaller body size, infants and children are likely to become dehydrated more quickly from diarrhea and vomiting. The following steps may help relieve symptoms of viral gastroenteritis and prevent dehydration in children:
                
- giving oral rehydration solutions such as Pedialyte, Naturalyte, Infalyte, and CeraLyte  - giving food as soon as the child is hungry  - giving infants breast milk or full strength formula, as usual, along with oral rehydration solutions
                
Older adults and adults with weak immune systems should also drink oral rehydration solutions to prevent dehydration.

Question: What to do for Viral Gastroenteritis ?
Answer: - Viral gastroenteritis is inflammation of the lining of the stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. Several different viruses can cause viral gastroenteritis, which is highly contagious and extremely common.  - The main symptoms of viral gastroenteritis are watery diarrhea and vomiting.  - Dehydration is the most common complication of viral gastroenteritis.  - When someone does not drink enough fluids to replace those that are lost through vomiting and diarrhea, dehydration can result. Signs of dehydration in adults are excessive thirst, infrequent urination, dark-colored urine, dry skin, and lethargy, dizziness, or faintness.  - Infants, young children, older adults, and people with weak immune systems have the greatest risk of becoming dehydrated.  - Viral gastroenteritis is transmitted from person to person.  - Diagnosis of viral gastroenteritis is usually based on symptoms alone.  - Most cases of viral gastroenteritis resolve over time without specific treatment. Antibiotics are not effective against viral infections. The primary goal of treatment is to reduce symptoms.  - Adults with viral gastroenteritis should drink plenty of liquids such as fruit juices, sports drinks, caffeine-free soft drinks, and broths to replace fluids and electrolytes.  - Children with viral gastroenteritis should be given oral rehydration solutions to prevent dehydration.  - People can reduce their chances of getting or spreading viral gastroenteritis if they wash their hands thoroughly with soap and warm water for 20 seconds after using the bathroom or changing diapers and before eating or handling food, disinfect contaminated surfaces, and avoid foods or liquids that might be contaminated.

Question: What to do for Nutrition for Early Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults ?
Answer: - Controlling blood glucose and blood pressure through healthy food choices is an important step toward slowing or stopping the progression of chronic kidney disease (CKD).  - The kidneys remove wastes and extra water from the blood and make urine.  - Millions of Americans are at risk for developing CKD because they have diabetes, high blood pressure, or both.  - People with either type 1 or type 2 diabetes must choose foods carefully to control their blood glucose. Following a meal plan to keep blood glucose at a healthy level may prevent CKD from developing.  - Controlling blood pressure through healthy food choices and regular physical activity can delay or prevent the development of CKD. People with CKD should try to keep their blood pressure below 140/90 mmHg.  - Medical nutrition therapy (MNT) is the use of counseling by a registered dietitian to help promote a medical or health goal.   - Dietitians who specialize in helping people with CKD are called renal dietitians.   - Learning how to read and understand lab reports lets a person see how different foods can affect the kidneys. Patients can ask their doctor for copies of their lab reports and ask to have them explained, noting any results out of the normal range.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Gas ?
Answer: Your eating habits and diet affect the amount of gas you have. For example, eating and drinking too fast can cause you to swallow more air. And you may have more gas after you eat certain carbohydrates.
                
Track what you eat and your gas symptoms to find out what foods cause you to have more gas. Avoid or eat less of the foods that cause your gas symptoms.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Gas ?
Answer: - Gas is air in the digestive tract.  - Everyone has gas. Burping and passing gas are normal.  - Gas in the digestive tract is usually caused by swallowing air and the breakdown of certain foods in the large intestine.  - Most foods that contain carbohydrates can cause gas.  - Foods that cause gas for one person may not cause gas for someone else.  - The most common symptoms of gas are burping, passing gas, bloating, and abdominal pain or discomfort.  - Swallowing less air and changing what you eat can help prevent or reduce gas.  - Some over-the-counter medicines can help reduce gas.

Question: What to do for Hemorrhoids ?
Answer: - Hemorrhoids are swollen and inflamed veins around the anus or in the lower rectum.  - Hemorrhoids are not dangerous or life threatening, and symptoms usually go away within a few days.  - A thorough evaluation and proper diagnosis by a doctor is important any time a person notices bleeding from the rectum or blood in the stool.  - Simple diet and lifestyle changes often reduce the swelling of hemorrhoids and relieve hemorrhoid symptoms.  - If at-home treatments do not relieve symptoms, medical treatments may be needed.

Question: What to do for Growth Failure in Children with Chronic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: Children with CKD may lose their appetite or lack the energy to eat. To treat growth failure in children, a health care provider may recommend dietary changes, such as
                
- adding calcium. Children with CKD should get the recommended level of calcium for their age from their diet or from calcium supplements.  - monitoring liquids. Balancing the childs liquid intake based on his or her kidney disease is important. Some children will need to increase liquid intake, while other children will need to restrict liquid intake.  - limiting phosphorus. Children with CKD may need to limit phosphorus intake if they have mineral and bone disorder.  - monitoring protein. Children with CKD should eat enough protein for growth; however, they should avoid high protein intake, which can put an extra burden on the kidneys.  - monitoring sodium. The amount of sodium children with CKD need depends on the stage of their kidney disease, their age, and sometimes other factors. The health care provider may recommend either limiting or adding sodium, often from salt, to the childs diet.  - adding vitamin D. Children who do not get enough vitamin D through diet may need to take vitamin D supplements.
                
To help ensure coordinated and safe care, parents and caregivers should discuss the use of complementary and alternative medical practices, including the use of dietary supplements, with the childs health care provider. Read more at www.nccam.nih.gov.
                
Some children will use a feeding tube to receive all their nutrition. A feeding tube is a small, soft plastic tube placed through the nose or mouth into the stomach. The child will receive supplements through the tube to provide a full supply of fluid and nutrients to help him or her grow and develop. Feeding tubes are most often used in infants; however, sometimes older children and adolescents benefit from them as well.
                
Encouraging children to develop healthy eating habits can help prevent poor nutrition and promote healthy growing. The health care team will work with parents or caretakers to develop a healthy diet tailored to meet the needs of their child.
                
More information about diet and kidney disease is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Nutrition for Chronic Kidney Disease in Children.
                
Medications
                
A health care provider may prescribe medications that can help correct the underlying problems causing growth failure.
                
- A health care provider may prescribe phosphate binders when phosphorus levels in the blood rise and interfere with bone formation and normal growth. In the intestine, the medications bind, or attach, to some of the phosphorus found in food, causing the phosphorus to move through the intestine without being absorbed and exit the body in the stool. This process can decrease blood phosphorus levels and increase blood calcium levels. Phosphate binders come as chewable tablets, liquids, capsules, and pills.  - A health care provider may prescribe alkaline agents such as sodium bicarbonate to restore the acid-base balance in a child with acidosis.  - Synthetic erythropoietin is a man-made form of erythropoietin given by injection to treat anemia.
                
Growth Hormone Therapy
                
When a health care provider diagnoses a child with CKD and the child begins to show signs of growth failure, the health care provider may prescribe daily human growth hormone injections. The injections are a man-made growth hormone that mimics the natural hormone found in the body. Researchers have shown that using growth hormone therapy is effective in helping children reach normal adult height.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure in Children.

Question: What to do for Growth Failure in Children with Chronic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: - Growth failure is a complication of chronic kidney disease (CKD) in which children do not grow as expected.  - Health care providers use charts to monitor the growth of children with CKD and look for signs of growth failure.  - Researchers have found that many factors cause growth failure in children with CKD.  - Health care providers treat growth failure in children with CKD with      - changes in eating, diet, and nutrition    - medications    - growth hormone therapy    - Encouraging children to develop healthy eating habits can help prevent poor nutrition and promote healthy growing.  - The health care team will work with parents or caretakers to develop a healthy diet tailored to meet the needs of their child.  - When a health care provider diagnoses a child with CKD and the child begins to show signs of growth failure, the health care provider may prescribe daily human growth hormone injections.

Question: What to do for Mineral and Bone Disorder in Chronic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: - Mineral and bone disorder in chronic kidney disease (CKD) occurs when damaged kidneys and abnormal hormone levels cause calcium and phosphorus levels in a persons blood to be out of balance. Mineral and bone disorder commonly occurs in people with CKD and affects most people with kidney failure receiving dialysis.  - Chronic kidney disease is kidney damage that occurs slowly over many years, often due to diabetes or high blood pressure. Once damaged, the kidneys cant filter blood as they should.  - Hormones and minerals are important because they help bones stay strong. If a persons hormones and minerals are out of balance, his or her bones can become weak and malformed.   - Parathyroid hormone plays an important role in controlling calcium levels in the blood. When kidneys do not function properly, extra parathyroid hormone is released in the blood to move calcium from inside the bones into the blood.  - Chronic kidney disease causes mineral and bone disorder because the kidneys do not properly balance the mineral levels in the body. The kidneys stop activating calcitriol and do not remove the phosphorus in the blood properly.  - The complications of mineral and bone disorder in CKD include slowed bone growth and deformities, and heart and blood vessel problems.   - Treating mineral and bone disorder in CKD includes preventing damage to bones by controlling parathyroid hormone levels through changes in eating, diet, and nutrition; medications and supplements; and dialysis.   - Reducing dietary intake of phosphorus is one of the most important steps in preventing bone disease.  - If diet, medications, and dialysis cant control parathyroid hormone levels, a surgeon can remove one or more of the parathyroid glands.

Question: What to do for Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.

Question: What to do for Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ?
Answer: - Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is a rare disorder that occurs when one or more tumors form in the pancreas and duodenum.  - Experts do not know the exact cause of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.  - About 25 to 30 percent of gastrinomas are caused by an inherited genetic disorder called multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1).  - Although anyone can get Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, the disease is more common among men 30 to 50 years old.  - Zollinger-Ellison syndrome signs and symptoms are similar to those of peptic ulcers.  - Some people with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome have only diarrhea, with no other symptoms. Others develop gastroesophageal reflux (GER).  - A health care provider diagnoses Zollinger-Ellison syndrome based on the following:      - medical history    - physical exam    - signs and symptoms    - blood tests    - upper gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy    - imaging tests to look for gastrinomas    - measurement of stomach acid    - A health care provider treats Zollinger-Ellison syndrome with medications to reduce gastric acid secretion and with surgery to remove gastrinomas. A health care provider sometimes uses chemotherapymedications to shrink tumorswhen tumors are too widespread to remove with surgery.

Question: What to do for Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome in Children ?
Answer: At the beginning of the illness, children with hemolytic uremic syndrome may need IV nutrition or supplements to help maintain fluid balance in the body. Some children may need to follow a low-salt diet to help prevent swelling and high blood pressure.
                
Health care providers will encourage children with hemolytic uremic syndrome to eat when they are hungry. Most children who completely recover and do not have permanent kidney damage can return to their usual diet.

Question: What to do for Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome in Children ?
Answer: - Hemolytic uremic syndrome, or HUS, is a kidney condition that happens when red blood cells are destroyed and block the kidneys' filtering system.  - The most common cause of hemolytic uremic syndrome in children is an Escherichia coli (E. coli) infection of the digestive system.  - Normally, harmless strains, or types, of E. coli are found in the intestines and are an important part of digestion. However, if a child becomes infected with the O157:H7 strain of E. coli, the bacteria will lodge in the digestive tract and produce toxins that can enter the bloodstream.  - A child with hemolytic uremic syndrome may develop signs and symptoms similar to those seen with gastroenteritis, an inflammation of the lining of the stomach, small intestine, and large intestine.  - Most children who develop hemolytic uremic syndrome and its complications recover without permanent damage to their health.  - Some children may sustain significant kidney damage that slowly develops into chronic kidney disease (CKD).  - Parents and caregivers can help prevent childhood hemolytic uremic syndrome due to E. coli O157:H7 by      - avoiding unclean swimming areas    - avoiding unpasteurized milk, juice, and cider    - cleaning utensils and food surfaces often    - cooking meat to an internal temperature of at least 160 F    - defrosting meat in the microwave or refrigerator    - keeping children out of pools if they have had diarrhea    - keeping raw foods separate    - washing hands before eating    - washing hands well after using the restroom and after changing diapers

Question: What to do for Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure: Peritoneal Dialysis ?
Answer: Eating the right foods can help you feel better while on peritoneal dialysis. Talk with your dialysis centers dietitian to find a meal plan that works for you. Your dietary needs will depend on your treatment and other factors such as your weight and activity level. Staying healthy with CKD requires watching what is in your diet:
                
- Protein is in foods from animals and plants. Protein provides the building blocks that maintain and repair muscles, organs, and other parts of your body. Peritoneal dialysis can remove proteins from your body, so eat high-quality, protein-rich foods such as meat, fish, and eggs. However, many high-protein foods also contain phosphorous, which can weaken your bones. Talk with your dietitian about ways to get the protein you need without getting too much phosphorous.  - Phosphorus is a mineral that helps your bones stay healthy and your blood vessels and muscles work. Phosphorus is a natural part of foods rich in protein, and food producers often add it to many processed foods. Phosphorus can weaken your bones and make your skin itch if you consume too much. Peritoneal dialysis may not remove enough phosphorus from your body, so you will probably need to limit or avoid high-phosphorus foods such as milk and cheese, dried beans, peas, colas, nuts, and peanut butter. You may also need to take a pill called a phosphate binder that keeps phosphorus in your food from entering your bloodstream.  - Fluid includes water and drinks such as fruit juice and milk and water in foods such as fruits, vegetables, ice cream, gelatin, soup, and ice pops. You need water for your body to function properly; however, too much can cause swelling and make your heart work harder. Over time, having too much fluid in your body can cause high blood pressure and congestive heart failure. Peritoneal dialysis might cause you to have either too much or too little fluid, depending on the strength of the solution you use. Your diet can also influence whether you have too much or too little fluid. Your dietitian will help you determine how much liquid you need to consume each day.  - Sodium is a part of salt. Many canned, packaged, frozen, and fast foods contain sodium. Sodium is also a part of many condiments, seasonings, and meats. Too much sodium makes you thirsty, which makes you drink more liquid. Try to eat fresh foods that are naturally low in sodium, and look for products that say low sodium on the label, especially in canned and frozen foods.  - Potassium is a mineral that helps your nerves and muscles work the right way. Peritoneal dialysis can pull too much potassium from your blood, so you may need to eat more high-potassium foods such as bananas, oranges, potatoes, and tomatoes. However, be careful not to eat too much potassium. Your dietitian will help you choose the right amount.  - Calories are units for measuring the energy provided by foods and drinks. Eating foods with too many calories, such as oily and sugary foods, can make you gain weight. Your body can absorb the dextrose from your dialysis solution, which can increase your calorie intake. You may find you need to take in fewer calories to prevent weight gain. Your dietitian can help you create and follow a diet to stay at a healthy weight.  - Supplements help provide some of the vitamins and minerals that may be missing from your diet. Peritoneal dialysis also removes some vitamins from your body. Your doctor may prescribe a vitamin and mineral supplement that scientists have designed specifically for people with CKD and kidney failure. Never take vitamin and mineral supplements that you can buy over the counter. They may be harmful to you. Talk with your doctor before taking any medicine, including vitamin and mineral supplements, that he or she has not prescribed for you.
                
You may have a difficult time changing your diet at first. Eating the right foods will help you feel better. You will have more strength and energy. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Make the Kidney Connection: Food Tips and Healthy Eating Ideas.

Question: What to do for Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure: Peritoneal Dialysis ?
Answer: - Peritoneal dialysis is a treatment for kidney failure that uses the lining of your abdomen, or belly, to filter your blood inside your body.  - The two types of peritoneal dialysis are continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis and automated peritoneal dialysis.  - The most common problem with peritoneal dialysis is peritonitis, a serious abdominal infection.  - When dialysis solution stays in the body too long, it becomes so full of wastes and extra fluid that it cannot absorb any more from the body. The process may even reverse, letting some wastes and extra fluid back into the body.  - Eating the right foods can help you feel better while on peritoneal dialysis. Talk with your dialysis centers dietitian to find a meal plan that works for you.

Question: What to do for Facing the Challenges of Chronic Kidney Disease in Children ?
Answer: For children with CKD, learning about nutrition is vital because their diet can affect how well their kidneys work. Parents or guardians should always consult with their childs health care team before making any dietary changes. Staying healthy with CKD requires paying close attention to the following elements of a diet:
                
- Protein. Children with CKD should eat enough protein for growth while limiting high protein intake. Too much protein can put an extra burden on the kidneys and cause kidney function to decline faster. Protein needs increase when a child is on dialysis because the dialysis process removes protein from the childs blood. The health care team recommends the amount of protein needed for the child. Foods with protein include      - eggs    - milk    - cheese    - chicken    - fish    - red meats    - beans    - yogurt    - cottage cheese    - Sodium. The amount of sodium children need depends on the stage of their kidney disease, their age, and sometimes other factors. The health care team may recommend limiting or adding sodium and salt to the diet. Foods high in sodium include      - canned foods    - some frozen foods    - most processed foods    - some snack foods, such as chips and crackers    - Potassium. Potassium levels need to stay in the normal range for children with CKD, because too little or too much potassium can cause heart and muscle problems. Children may need to stay away from some fruits and vegetables or reduce the number of servings and portion sizes to make sure they do not take in too much potassium. The health care team recommends the amount of potassium a child needs. Low-potassium fruits and vegetables include      - apples    - cranberries    - strawberries    - blueberries    - raspberries    - pineapple    - cabbage    - boiled cauliflower    - mustard greens    - uncooked broccoli   High-potassium fruits and vegetables include      - oranges    - melons    - apricots    - bananas    - potatoes    - tomatoes    - sweet potatoes    - cooked spinach    - cooked broccoli    - Phosphorus. Children with CKD need to control the level of phosphorus in their blood because too much phosphorus pulls calcium from the bones, making them weaker and more likely to break. Too much phosphorus also can cause itchy skin and red eyes. As CKD progresses, a child may need to take a phosphate binder with meals to lower the concentration of phosphorus in the blood. Phosphorus is found in high-protein foods. Foods with low levels of phosphorus include      - liquid nondairy creamer    - green beans    - popcorn    - unprocessed meats from a butcher    - lemon-lime soda    - root beer    - powdered iced tea and lemonade mixes    - rice and corn cereals    - egg whites    - sorbet    - Fluids. Early in CKD, a childs damaged kidneys may produce either too much or too little urine, which can lead to swelling or dehydration. As CKD progresses, children may need to limit fluid intake. The health care provider will tell the child and parents or guardians the goal for fluid intake.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics, Nutrition for Chronic Kidney Disease in Children and Kidney Failure: Eat Right to Feel Right on Hemodialysis.

Question: What to do for Facing the Challenges of Chronic Kidney Disease in Children ?
Answer: - Children with chronic kidney disease (CKD) may have a negative self-image and may have relationship problems with family members due to the stress of living with a chronic disease. The condition can lead to behavior problems and make participating in school and extracurricular activities more difficult.  - CKD can cause learning problems because the buildup of wastes in the body can slow down nerve and brain function. Children with CKD may have trouble concentrating and may develop language and motor skills more slowly than their peers.  - Parents and other adults can help children with CKD fit in at school, deal with low self-esteem, make friends, be physically active, and follow their treatment regimen. As children with CKD approach adulthood, they may need help with preparing to enter the workforce.  - School attendance is vital in helping children with CKD lead the best life possible.  - One way to help children feel empowered is to give them as much control and responsibility over their own care as possible:      - Children can learn more about their medications, including doses.    - Children on dialysis should be encouraged to take an active part in their treatments.    - Parents or guardians should allow children to participate in treatment decision making.    - Participating in regular classroom and extracurricular activities may help children improve their social skills. Summer camps and recreational programs for children with special needs can be a good place to make new friends.  - Parents or guardians may feel protective of children with CKD; however, they should not try to limit activities unless instructed to by a health care provider.   - Children with CKD may need to take multiple medications, eat a specific diet, and follow their health care providers orders to help control their disease. Many children have a hard time following the treatment regimen. Health care providers use the term nonadherence to describe the failure or refusal to take prescribed medications or follow a health care providers directions.  - Adherence can be improved with a combination of health education, motivational techniques, and behavioral skill methods.  - Many skilled professionals are available to ensure that children with CKD get the best possible care. The family may want to talk with a social worker, mental health professional, financial counselor, and dietitian. If a child reaches kidney failure, the medical staff at the dialysis center or transplantation clinic can provide help.  - For children with CKD, learning about nutrition is vital because their diet can affect how well their kidneys work. Parents or guardians should always consult with their childs health care team before making any dietary changes.

Question: What to do for Cushing's Syndrome ?
Answer: - Cushing's syndrome is a disorder caused by prolonged exposure of the body's tissues to high levels of the hormone cortisol.  - Typical signs and symptoms of Cushing's syndrome include upper body obesity, a rounded face, skin that bruises easily and heals poorly, weakened bones, excess body hair growth and menstrual irregularities in women, and decreased fertility in men.  - Cushing's syndrome is caused by exposure to glucocorticoids, which are used to treat inflammatory diseases, or by the body's overproduction of cortisol, most often due to tumors of the pituitary gland or lung.  - Several tests are usually needed to diagnosis Cushing's syndrome, including urine, blood, and saliva tests. Other tests help find the cause of the syndrome.  - Treatment depends on the specific reason for excess cortisol and may include surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, or the use of cortisol-inhibiting drugs.

Question: What to do for Indigestion ?
Answer: - Indigestion, also known as dyspepsia, is a term used to describe one or more symptoms including a feeling of fullness during a meal, uncomfortable fullness after a meal, and burning or pain in the upper abdomen.  - Indigestion can be caused by a condition in the digestive tract such as gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), peptic ulcer disease, cancer, or abnormality of the pancreas or bile ducts.  - Sometimes a person has indigestion for which a cause cannot be found. This type of indigestion is called functional dyspepsia.  - Indigestion and heartburn are different conditions, but a person can have symptoms of both.  - The doctor may order x rays; blood, breath, and stool tests; and an upper endoscopy with biopsies to diagnose indigestion.  - Some people may experience relief from indigestion by making some lifestyle changes and decreasing stress.  - The doctor may prescribe antacids, H2 receptor antagonists (H2RAs), proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), prokinetics, or antibiotics to treat the symptoms of indigestion.

Question: What to do for IgA Nephropathy ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing IgA nephropathy. Health care providers may recommend that people with kidney disease, such as IgA nephropathy, make dietary changes such as
                
- limiting dietary sodium, often from salt, to help reduce edema and lower blood pressure  - decreasing liquid intake to help reduce edema and lower blood pressure  - eating a diet low in saturated fat and cholesterol to help control high levels of lipids, or fats, in the blood
                
Health care providers may also recommend that people with kidney disease eat moderate or reduced amounts of protein, although the benefit of reducing protein in a persons diet is still being researched. Proteins break down into waste products the kidneys must filter from the blood. Eating more protein than the body needs may burden the kidneys and cause kidney function to decline faster. However, protein intake that is too low may lead to malnutrition, a condition that occurs when the body does not get enough nutrients. People with kidney disease on a restricted protein diet should receive blood tests that can show nutrient levels.
                
Some researchers have shown that fish oil supplements containing omega-3 fatty acids may slow kidney damage in some people with kidney disease by lowering blood pressure. Omega-3 fatty acids may help reduce inflammation and slow kidney damage due to IgA nephropathy. To help ensure coordinated and safe care, people should discuss their use of complementary and alternative medical practices, including their use of dietary supplements and probiotics, with their health care provider. Read more at www.nccam.nih.gov/health/supplements.
                
People with IgA nephropathy should talk with a health care provider about dietary changes to best manage their individual needs.

Question: What to do for IgA Nephropathy ?
Answer: - Immunoglobulin A (IgA) nephropathy, also known as Bergers disease, is a kidney disease that occurs when IgA deposits build up in the kidneys, causing inflammation that damages kidney tissues.  - Scientists think that IgA nephropathy is an autoimmune kidney disease, meaning that the disease is due to the bodys immune system attacking tissues in the kidney.  - IgA nephropathy is one of the most common kidney diseases, other than those caused by diabetes or high blood pressure.  - In its early stages, IgA nephropathy may have no symptoms; it can be silent for years or even decades.  - Once symptoms appear, the most common one is hematuria, or blood in the urine.  - Another symptom of IgA nephropathy is albuminuriawhen a persons urine contains an increased amount of albumin, a protein typically found in the blood, or large amounts of protein in the urine.  - Currently, health care providers do not use blood or urine tests as reliable ways to diagnose IgA nephropathy; therefore, the diagnosis of IgA nephropathy requires a kidney biopsy.  - Researchers have not yet found a specific cure for IgA nephropathy.

Question: What to do for Urinary Tract Infections in Children ?
Answer: Children with a UTI should drink as much as they wish and not be forced to drink large amounts of fluid. The health care provider needs to know if a child is not interested in drinking or is unable to drink.

Question: What to do for Urinary Tract Infections in Children ?
Answer: - Urinary tract infections (UTIs) usually occur when the body fails to remove bacteria rapidly from the urinary tract.  - UTIs affect about 3 percent of children in the United States every year.  - Most UTIs are not serious, but chronic kidney infections can cause permanent damage.  - A UTI in a young child may be a sign of an abnormality in the urinary tract that could lead to repeated problems.  - Symptoms of a UTI range from slight burning with urination or unusual-smelling urine to severe pain and high fever. A child with a UTI may also have no symptoms.  - Parents should talk with their health care provider if they suspect their child has a UTI.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Hepatitis C ?
Answer: If you have chronic hepatitis C, you should do things to take care of yourself, including eating a healthy diet. Avoid drinking alcohol, which can harm the liver. Talk with your doctor before taking vitamins and other supplements.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Hepatitis C ?
Answer: - Hepatitis C is a virus, or infection, that causes inflammation of the liver.  - Anyone can get hepatitis C, but some people are more likely to than others.  - You could get hepatitis C through contact with an infected persons blood.  - Most people do not have any symptoms until the hepatitis C virus causes liver damage, which can take 10 or more years to happen.  - See a doctor right away if you or a child in your care has symptoms of hepatitis C.  - Acute hepatitis C is a short-term infection with the hepatitis C virus.  - Chronic hepatitis C is a long-lasting infection with the hepatitis C virus. Chronic hepatitis C occurs when the body cant get rid of the hepatitis C virus.  - A blood test will show if you have hepatitis C.  - If you are at higher risk of getting hepatitis C, get tested. Many people with hepatitis C do not know they are infected.  - Hepatitis C usually is not treated unless it becomes chronic. Chronic hepatitis C is treated with medicines that slow or stop the virus from damaging the liver.  - Tell your doctor and your dentist if you have hepatitis C.  - See your doctor right away if you think you have been in contact with the hepatitis C virus. Early diagnosis and treatment of chronic hepatitis C can help prevent liver damage.

Question: What to do for Cirrhosis ?
Answer: A healthy diet is important in all stages of cirrhosis because malnutrition is common in people with this disease. Malnutrition is a condition that occurs when the body does not get enough nutrients. Cirrhosis may lead to malnutrition because it can cause
                
- people to eat less because of symptoms such as loss of appetite  - changes in metabolism  - reduced absorption of vitamins and minerals
                
Health care providers can recommend a meal plan that is well balanced and provides enough calories and protein. If ascites develops, a health care provider or dietitian may recommend a sodium-restricted diet. To improve nutrition, the health care provider may prescribe a liquid supplement. A person may take the liquid by mouth or through a nasogastric tubea tiny tube inserted through the nose and throat that reaches into the stomach.
                
A person with cirrhosis should not eat raw shellfish, which can contain a bacterium that causes serious infection. Cirrhosis affects the immune system, making people with cirrhosis more likely than healthy people to develop an infection after eating shellfish that contain this bacterium.
                
A health care provider may recommend calcium and vitamin D supplements to help prevent osteoporosis.

Question: What to do for Cirrhosis ?
Answer: - Cirrhosis is a condition in which the liver slowly deteriorates and is unable to function normally due to chronic, or long lasting, injury. Scar tissue replaces healthy liver tissue and partially blocks the flow of blood through the liver.  - The most common causes of cirrhosis in the United States are chronic hepatitis C, alcohol-related liver disease, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), and chronic hepatitis B.  - Many people with cirrhosis have no symptoms in the early stages of the disease. However, as the disease progresses, a person may experience the following symptoms:      - fatigue, or feeling tired    - weakness    - itching    - loss of appetite    - weight loss    - nausea    - bloating of the abdomen from ascitesa buildup of fluid in the abdomen    - edemaswelling due to a buildup of fluidin the feet, ankles, or legs    - spiderlike blood vessels, called spider angiomas, on the skin    - jaundice, a condition that causes the skin and whites of the eyes to turn yellow    - As the liver fails, complications may develop. In some people, complications may be the first signs of the disease.  - A health care provider usually diagnoses cirrhosis based on the presence of conditions that increase its likelihood, such as heavy alcohol use or obesity, and symptoms. A health care provider may confirm the diagnosis with      - a medical and family history    - a physical exam    - a blood test    - imaging tests    - a liver biopsy    - Treatment for cirrhosis depends on the cause of the disease and whether complications are present.  - A health care provider may consider a liver transplant when cirrhosis leads to liver failure or treatment for complications is ineffective.

Question: What to do for Kidney Stones in Children ?
Answer: Families may benefit from meeting with a dietitian to learn how dietary management can help in preventing stones. Depending on the underlying cause of the stone formation, medications may be necessary to prevent recurrent stones. Dietary changes and medications may be required for a long term or, quite often, for life. Some common changes include the following:
                
- Children who tend to make calcium oxalate stones or have hypercalciuria should eat a regular amount of dietary calcium and limit salt intake. A thiazide diuretic medication may be given to some children to reduce the amount of calcium leaking into the urine.  - Children who have large amounts of oxalate in the urine may need to limit foods high in oxalate, such as chocolate, peanut butter, and dark-colored soft drinks.  - Children who form uric acid or cystine stones may need extra potassium citrate or potassium carbonate in the form of a pill or liquid medication. Avoiding foods high in purinessuch as meat, fish, and shellfishmay also help prevent uric acid stones.

Question: What to do for Kidney Stones in Children ?
Answer: - A kidney stone is a solid piece of material that forms in a kidney when some substances that are normally found in the urine become highly concentrated.  - Kidney stones occur in infants, children, and teenagers from all races and ethnicities.  - Kidney stones in children are diagnosed using a combination of urine, blood, and imaging tests.  - The treatment for a kidney stone usually depends on its size and composition as well as whether it is causing symptoms of pain or obstructing the urinary tract.  - Small stones usually pass through the urinary tract without treatment. Still, children will often require pain control and encouragement to drink lots of fluids to help move the stone along.  - Children with larger stones, or stones that block urine flow and cause great pain, may need to be hospitalized for more urgent treatment.  - Hospital treatments may include shock wave lithotripsy (SWL), removal of the stone with a ureteroscope, lithotripsy with a ureteroscope, or percutaneous nephrolithotomy.   - To prevent recurrent kidney stones, health care providers and their patients must understand what is causing the stones to form.  - In all circumstances, children should drink plenty of fluids to keep the urine diluted and flush away substances that could form kidney stones. Urine should be almost clear.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Hepatitis B ?
Answer: If you have chronic hepatitis B, you should do things to take care of yourself, including eating a healthy diet. Avoid drinking alcohol, which can harm the liver. Talk with your doctor before taking vitamins and other supplements.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Hepatitis B ?
Answer: - Hepatitis B is a virus, or infection, that causes liver disease and inflammation of the liver.  - Anyone can get hepatitis B, but some people are more likely to than others.  - You could get hepatitis B through contact with an infected persons blood, semen, or other body fluid.  - Most people do not have any symptoms of hepatitis B. Adults and children ages 5 and older may have symptoms.  - See a doctor right away if you or a child in your care has symptoms of hepatitis B.  - Acute hepatitis B is a short-term infection with the hepatitis B virus.  - Chronic hepatitis B is a long-lasting infection with the hepatitis B virus. Chronic hepatitis B occurs when the body cant get rid of the hepatitis B virus.  - Children, especially infants, are more likely to get chronic hepatitis B.  - A blood test will show if you have hepatitis B.  - If you are at higher risk of getting hepatitis B, get tested. If you are pregnant, you should also get tested.  - Many people with hepatitis B do not know they are infected. Early diagnosis and treatment can help prevent liver damage.  - Hepatitis B is usually not treated unless it becomes chronic. Chronic hepatitis B is treated with medicines that slow or stop the virus from damaging the liver.  - You can avoid getting hepatitis B by receiving the hepatitis B vaccine.  - Tell your doctor and your dentist if you have hepatitis B.  - If you are pregnant and have hepatitis B, tell the doctor and staff who deliver your baby.  - See your doctor right away if you think you have been in contact with the hepatitis B virus.

Question: What to do for Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis ?
Answer: - Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is fat in the liver, with inflammation and damage.  - NASH occurs in people who drink little or no alcohol and affects 2 to 5 percent of Americans, especially people who are middle-aged and overweight or obese.  - NASH can occur in children.  - People who have NASH may feel well and may not know that they have a liver disease.  - NASH can lead to cirrhosis, a condition in which the liver is permanently damaged and cannot work properly.  - Fatigue can occur at any stage of NASH.  - Weight loss and weakness may begin once the disease is advanced or cirrhosis is present.  - NASH may be suspected if blood tests show high levels of liver enzymes or if scans show fatty liver.  - NASH is diagnosed by examining a small piece of the liver taken through a needle, a procedure called biopsy.  - People who have NASH should reduce their weight, eat a balanced diet, engage in physical activity, and avoid alcohol and unnecessary medications.  - No specific therapies for NASH exist. Experimental therapies being studied include antioxidants and antidiabetes medications.

Question: What to do for Am I at Risk for Type 2 Diabetes? Taking Steps to Lower Your Risk of Getting Diabetes ?
Answer: Your eating, diet, and nutrition choices play an important role in preventing or delaying diabetes. Follow the suggestions below to reach and maintain a reasonable weight and make wise food choices most of the time. Remember that it can take time to change your habits and be patient with yourself. You can also get help from a dietitian or join a weight-loss program to support you while you reach your goals.
                

                
Reach and Maintain a Reasonable Body Weight
                
Your weight affects your health in many ways. Being overweight can keep your body from making and using insulin properly. Excess body weight can also cause high blood pressure. Every pound you lose lowers your risk of getting diabetes.
                
In addition to weight, the location of excess fat on the body can be important. A waist measurement of 40 inches or more for men and 35 inches or more for women is linked to insulin resistance and increases a persons risk for type 2 diabetes. This is true even if your BMI falls within the normal range.
                

                
Find Your BMI
                
The BMI is a measure of body weight relative to height. The BMI can help you find out whether you are normal weight, overweight, or obese. Use the table on pages 24 and 25 to find your BMI.
                
- Find your height in the left-hand column.  - Move across in the same row to the number closest to your weight.  - The number at the top of that column is your BMI. Check the word above your BMI to see whether you are normal weight, overweight, or obese.
                
The BMI has certain limitations. The BMI may overestimate body fat in athletes and others who have a muscular build and underestimate body fat in older adults and others who have lost muscle.
                
The BMI for children and teens must be determined based on age, height, weight, and sex. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has information about BMI in children and teens, including a BMI calculator, at www.cdc.gov/nccdphp/dnpa/bmi. The CDC website also has a BMI calculator for adults. A BMI calculator from the NIH is available at www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/educational/lose_wt/BMI/bmicalc.htm.
                
The NIH also has a free smartphone app for calculating BMI. You can search My BMI Calculator on your phone to find the app. The app also provides links to information about steps you can take to bring your BMI into a healthy range.

Question: What to do for Medullary Sponge Kidney ?
Answer: The following changes in diet may help prevent UTIs and kidney stone formation:
                
- Drinking plenty of water and other liquids can help flush bacteria from the urinary tract and dilute urine so kidney stones cannot form. A person should drink enough liquid to produce about 2 to 2.5 quarts of urine every day.3  - Reducing sodium intake, mostly from salt, may help prevent kidney stones. Diets high in sodium can increase the excretion of calcium into the urine and thus increase the chance of calciumcontaining kidney stones forming.  - Foods rich in animal proteins such as meat, eggs, and fish can increase the chance of uric acid stones and calcium stones forming. People who form stones should limit their meat consumption to 6 to 8 ounces a day.4  - People who are more likely to develop calcium oxalate stones should include 1,000 milligrams of calcium in their diet every day. Adults older than 50 years should consume 1,200 milligrams of calcium daily.3 Calcium in the digestive tract binds to oxalate from food and keeps it from entering the blood and the urinary tract, where it can form stones.
                
People with medullary sponge kidney should talk with their health care provider or a dietitian before making any dietary changes. A dietitian can help a person plan healthy meals.

Question: What to do for Medullary Sponge Kidney ?
Answer: - Medullary sponge kidney, also known as Cacchi-Ricci disease, is a birth defect where changes occur in the tubules, or tiny tubes, inside a fetus kidneys.  - Symptoms of medullary sponge kidney do not usually appear until the teenage years or the 20s. Medullary sponge kidney can affect one or both kidneys.  - Complications of medullary sponge kidney include      - hematuria, or blood in the urine    - kidney stones    - urinary tract infections (UTIs)    - Many people with medullary sponge kidney have no symptoms. The first sign that a person has medullary sponge kidney is usually a UTI or a kidney stone. UTIs and kidney stones share many of the same signs and symptoms:      - burning or painful urination    - pain in the back, lower abdomen, or groin    - cloudy, dark, or bloody urine    - foul-smelling urine    - fever and chills    - vomiting    - Health care providers commonly choose one or more of three imaging techniques to diagnose medullary sponge kidney:      - intravenous pyelogram    - computerized tomography (CT) scan    - ultrasound    - Scientists have not discovered a way to reverse medullary sponge kidney. Once a health care provider is sure a person has medullary sponge kidney, treatment focuses on      - curing an existing UTI    - removing any kidney stones    - Scientists have not yet found a way to prevent medullary sponge kidney. However, health care providers can recommend medications and dietary changes to prevent future UTIs and kidney stones.

Question: What to do for Vesicoureteral Reflux ?
Answer: Eating, diet, and nutrition have not been shown to play a role in causing or preventing VUR.

Question: What to do for Vesicoureteral Reflux ?
Answer: - Vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) is the abnormal flow of urine from the bladder to the upper urinary tract.  - VUR is more common in infants and young children, but older children and even adults can be affected. About 10 percent of children have VUR.  - In many cases, a child with VUR has no symptoms. When symptoms are present, the most common is a urinary tract infection (UTI).  - When a child with VUR gets a UTI, bacteria can move into the kidney and lead to scarring. Scarring of the kidney can be associated with high blood pressure and kidney failure.  - Voiding cystourethrogram (VCUG), radionuclide cystogram (RNC), and abdominal ultrasound are used to diagnose VUR.  - Children with VUR should also be assessed for bladder/bowel dysfunction (BBD). Children who have VUR along with any BBD symptoms are at greater risk of kidney damage due to infection.  - The standard treatment for primary VUR has included prompt treatment of UTIs and long-term use of antibiotics to prevent UTIs, also called antimicrobial prophylaxis, until VUR goes away on its own. Surgery has also been used in certain cases.  - Secondary VUR is treated by removing the blockage causing the reflux.

Question: What to do for Ulcerative Colitis ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing ulcerative colitis symptoms. Good nutrition is important in the management of ulcerative colitis, however. Dietary changes can help reduce symptoms. A health care provider may recommend dietary changes such as
                
- avoiding carbonated drinks  - avoiding popcorn, vegetable skins, nuts, and other high-fiber foods while a person has symptoms  - drinking more liquids  - eating smaller meals more often  - keeping a food diary to help identify troublesome foods
                
Health care providers may recommend nutritional supplements and vitamins for people who do not absorb enough nutrients.
                
To help ensure coordinated and safe care, people should discuss their use of complementary and alternative medical practices, including their use of dietary supplements and probiotics, with their health care provider. Read more at www.nccam.nih.gov/health/probiotics.
                
Depending on a person's symptoms or medications, a health care provider may recommend a specific diet, such as a
                
- high-calorie diet  - lactose-free diet  - low-fat diet  - low-fiber diet  - low-salt diet
                
People should speak with a health care provider about specific dietary recommendations and changes.

Question: What to do for Ulcerative Colitis ?
Answer: - Ulcerative colitis is a chronic, or long lasting, disease that causes inflammationirritation or swellingand sores called ulcers on the inner lining of the large intestine.  - The exact cause of ulcerative colitis is unknown. Researchers believe that factors such as an overactive intestinal immune system, genes, and environment may play a role in causing ulcerative colitis.  - Ulcerative colitis can occur in people of any age. However, it is more likely to develop in people      - between the ages of 15 and 30    - older than 60    - who have a family member with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)    - of Jewish descent    - The most common signs and symptoms of ulcerative colitis are diarrhea with blood or pus and abdominal discomfort.  - A health care provider diagnoses ulcerative colitis with the following:      - medical and family history    - physical exam    - lab tests    - endoscopies of the large intestine    - Which treatment a person needs depends on the severity of the disease and symptoms.  - Good nutrition is important in the management of ulcerative colitis. A health care provider may recommend that a person make dietary changes.  - People with ulcerative colitis should talk with their health care provider about how often they should get screened for colon cancer.

Question: What to do for Short Bowel Syndrome ?
Answer: Researchers have not found that eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing short bowel syndrome.

Question: What to do for Short Bowel Syndrome ?
Answer: - Short bowel syndrome is a group of problems related to poor absorption of nutrients.  - People with short bowel syndrome cannot absorb enough water, vitamins, minerals, protein, fat, calories, and other nutrients from food.  - The main symptom of short bowel syndrome is diarrhealoose, watery stools. Diarrhea can lead to dehydration, malnutrition, and weight loss.  - A health care provider will recommend treatment for short bowel syndrome based on a patient's nutritional needs. Treatment may include      - nutritional support    - medications    - surgery    - intestinal transplant

Question: What to do for Hashimoto's Disease ?
Answer: Iodine is an essential mineral for the thyroid. However, people with Hashimotos disease may be sensitive to harmful side effects from iodine. Taking iodine drops or eating foods containing large amounts of iodinesuch as seaweed, dulse, or kelpmay cause or worsen hypothyroidism. Read more in Iodine in diet at www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/002421.htm.
                
Women need more iodine when they are pregnantabout 220 micrograms a daybecause the baby gets iodine from the mothers diet. Women who are breastfeeding need about 290 micrograms a day. In the United States, about 7 percent of pregnant women may not get enough iodine in their diet or through prenatal vitamins.3 Pregnant women should choose iodized saltsalt supplemented with iodineover plain salt and take prenatal vitamins containing iodine to ensure this need is met.
                
To help ensure coordinated and safe care, people should discuss their use of complementary and alternative medical practices, including their use of dietary supplements such as iodine, with their health care provider. Tips for talking with health care providers are available through the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health.

Question: What to do for Hashimoto's Disease ?
Answer: - Hashimotos disease, also called chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis or autoimmune thyroiditis, is an autoimmune disease.  - Hashimotos disease often leads to reduced thyroid function, or hypothyroidism. Hypothyroidism is a disorder that occurs when the thyroid doesnt make enough thyroid hormone for the bodys needs.  - Hashimotos disease is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in the United States. Many people with Hashimotos disease have no symptoms at first. As the disease slowly progresses, the thyroid usually enlarges and may cause the front of the neck to look swollen. The enlarged thyroid, called a goiter, may create a feeling of fullness in the throat, though it is usually not painful.  - Not everyone with Hashimotos disease develops hypothyroidism. For those who do, the hypothyroidism may be subclinicalmild and without symptoms, especially early in its course.  - Hashimotos disease is much more common in women than men. Although the disease often occurs in adolescent or young women, it more commonly appears between 30 and 50 years of age.  - Hashimotos disease, with or without hypothyroidism, is treated with synthetic thyroxine, which is man-made T4.  - Women with Hashimotos disease should discuss their condition with their health care provider before becoming pregnant.  - Pregnant women should choose iodized saltsalt supplemented with iodineover plain salt and take prenatal vitamins containing iodine.  - People should discuss their use of dietary supplements, such as iodine, with their health care provider.

Question: What to do for Urinary Incontinence in Children ?
Answer: Eating, diet, and nutrition have not been shown to play a role in causing or preventing UI in children, though ensuring sufficient fluid intake throughout the day and avoiding caffeine intake may be helpful.

Question: What to do for Urinary Incontinence in Children ?
Answer: - Urinary incontinence (UI) is the loss of bladder control, which results in the accidental loss of urine. A child with UI may not stay dry during the day or night. Although UI affects many children, it usually disappears naturally over time.  - By 5 years of age, more than 98 percent of children can control urination during the day. Nighttime wetting is more common than daytime wetting in children, affecting 30 percent of 4-year-olds.  - The exact cause of most cases of nighttime UI is not known. Though a few cases are caused by structural problems in the urinary tract, most cases result from more than one factor including slower physical development, an overproduction of urine at night, and the inability to recognize bladder filling when asleep.  - Nighttime UI has also been associated with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), and anxiety. Certain genes have been found to contribute to UI.  - Daytime UI that is not associated with urinary tract infection (UTI) or structural problems in the urinary tract may be due to an overactive bladder or infrequent or incomplete voiding problems.  - Most UI fades away naturally as a child grows and develops and does not require treatment. When treatment is needed, options include bladder training and related strategies, moisture alarms, and medications.

Question: What to do for Chronic Diarrhea in Children ?
Answer: A health care provider may recommend changing a childs diet to treat the cause of chronic diarrhea. Making sure that children receive proper nutrition is important for growth and development. A childs parent or caretaker should talk with a health care provider about changing the childs diet to treat chronic diarrhea.

Question: What to do for Chronic Diarrhea in Children ?
Answer: - Diarrhea is loose, watery stools. Chronic, or long lasting, diarrhea typically lasts for more than 4 weeks.  - Many diseases and disorders can cause chronic diarrhea in children. Common causes include infections, functional gastrointestinal (GI) disorders, food allergies and intolerances, and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).  - Symptoms that accompany chronic diarrhea in children depend on the cause of the diarrhea. Symptoms can include cramping, abdominal pain, nausea or vomiting, fever, chills, or bloody stools.  - Children with chronic diarrhea who have malabsorption can experience bloating and swelling of the abdomen, changes in appetite, or weight loss or poor weight gain.  - Children with any of the following symptoms should see a health care provider right away: signs of malabsorption, severe abdominal or rectal pain, a fever of 102 degrees or higher, or stools containing blood or pus.  - To determine the cause of chronic diarrhea, the health care provider will take a complete medical and family history and conduct a physical exam, and may perform tests.  - The treatment for chronic diarrhea will depend on the cause.  - A childs parent or caretaker should talk with a health care provider about changing the childs diet to treat chronic diarrhea.

Question: What to do for Irritable Bowel Syndrome in Children ?
Answer: Large meals can cause cramping and diarrhea, so eating smaller meals more often, or eating smaller portions, may help IBS symptoms. Eating meals that are low in fat and high in carbohydrates, such as pasta, rice, whole-grain breads and cereals, fruits, and vegetables may help.
                
Certain foods and drinks may cause IBS symptoms in some children, such as
                
- foods high in fat  - milk products  - drinks with caffeine  - drinks with large amounts of artificial sweeteners, which are substances used in place of sugar  - foods that may cause gas, such as beans and cabbage
                
Children with IBS may want to limit or avoid these foods. Keeping a food diary is a good way to track which foods cause symptoms so they can be excluded from or reduced in the diet.
                
Dietary fiber may lessen constipation in children with IBS, but it may not help with lowering pain. Fiber helps keep stool soft so it moves smoothly through the colon. The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics recommends children consume age plus 5 grams of fiber daily. A 7-year-old child, for example, should get 7 plus 5, or 12 grams, of fiber a day.3 Fiber may cause gas and trigger symptoms in some children with IBS. Increasing fiber intake by 2 to 3 grams per day may help reduce the risk of increased gas and bloating.
                
Medications
                
The health care provider will select medications based on the childs symptoms. Caregivers should not give children any medications unless told to do so by a health care provider.
                
- Fiber supplements. Fiber supplements may be recommended to relieve constipation when increasing dietary fiber is ineffective.  - Laxatives. Constipation can be treated with laxative medications. Laxatives work in different ways, and a health care provider can provide information about which type is best. Caregivers should not give children laxatives unless told to do so by a health care provider. More information about different types of laxatives is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Constipation.  - Antidiarrheals. Loperamide has been found to reduce diarrhea in children with IBS, though it does not reduce pain, bloating, or other symptoms. Loperamide reduces stool frequency and improves stool consistency by slowing the movement of stool through the colon. Medications to treat diarrhea in adults can be dangerous for infants and children and should only be given if told to do so by a health care provider.  - Antispasmodics. Antispasmodics, such as hyoscine, cimetropium, and pinaverium, help to control colon muscle spasms and reduce abdominal pain.  - Antidepressants. Tricyclic antidepressants and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors in low doses can help relieve IBS symptoms including abdominal pain. These medications are thought to reduce the perception of pain, improve mood and sleep patterns, and adjust the activity of the GI tract.
                
Probiotics
                
Probiotics are live microorganisms, usually bacteria, that are similar to microorganisms normally found in the GI tract. Studies have found that probiotics, specifically Bifidobacteria and certain probiotic combinations, improve symptoms of IBS when taken in large enough amounts. But more research is needed. Probiotics can be found in dietary supplements, such as capsules, tablets, and powders, and in some foods, such as yogurt. A health care provider can give information about the right kind and right amount of probiotics to take to improve IBS symptoms. More information about probiotics can be found in the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine fact sheet An Introduction to Probiotics.
                
Therapies for Mental Health Problems
                
The following therapies can help improve IBS symptoms due to mental health problems:
                
- Talk therapy. Talking with a therapist may reduce stress and improve IBS symptoms. Two types of talk therapy used to treat IBS are cognitive behavioral therapy and psychodynamic, or interpersonal, therapy. Cognitive behavioral therapy focuses on the childs thoughts and actions. Psychodynamic therapy focuses on how emotions affect IBS symptoms. This type of therapy often involves relaxation and stress management techniques.  - Hypnotherapy. In hypnotherapy, the therapist uses hypnosis to help the child relax into a trancelike state. This type of therapy may help the child relax the muscles in the colon.

Question: What to do for Irritable Bowel Syndrome in Children ?
Answer: - Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a functional gastrointestinal (GI) disorder, meaning it is a problem caused by changes in how the GI tract works. Children with a functional GI disorder have frequent symptoms, but the GI tract does not become damaged.  - IBS is not a disease; it is a group of symptoms that occur together.  - The most common symptoms of IBS are abdominal pain or discomfort, often reported as cramping, along with diarrhea, constipation, or both.  - The causes of IBS are not well understood. The possible causes of IBS in children include brain-gut signal problems, GI motor problems, hypersensitivity, mental health problems, bacterial gastroenteritis, small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, and genetics.  - To diagnose IBS, a health care provider will conduct a physical exam and take a complete medical history. The medical history will include questions about the childs symptoms, family members with GI disorders, recent infections, medications, and stressful events related to the onset of symptoms. IBS is diagnosed when the physical exam does not show any cause for the childs symptoms and the child meets all of the following criteria:      - has had symptoms at least once per week for at least 2 months    - is growing as expected    - is not showing any signs that suggest another cause for the symptoms    - Though there is no cure for IBS, the symptoms can be treated with a combination of the following:      - changes in eating, diet, and nutrition    - medications    - probiotics    - therapies for mental health problems

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Gestational Diabetes ?
Answer: Your health care team will help you make a healthy eating plan with food choices that are good for both you and your baby. These choices are good for you to follow throughout pregnancy and after, as you raise your family.
                
Using a healthy eating plan will help your blood glucose stay in your target range. The plan will help you know which foods to eat, how much to eat, and when to eat. Food choices, amounts, and timing are all important in keeping your blood glucose levels in your target range.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, What I need to know about Eating and Diabetes.
                

                
Physical Activity
                
Physical activity can help you reach your blood glucose targets. Talk with your doctor about the type of activity that is best for you. If you are already active, tell your doctor what you do. Being physically active will also help lower your chances of having type 2 diabetesand its problemsin the future. Now is the time to develop good habits for you and your baby.
                
For more information about physical activity and pregnancy, visit www.womenshealth.gov/pregnancy.
                
Insulin Shots
                
If you have trouble meeting your blood glucose targets, you may need to take a medicine called insulin, along with following a healthy meal plan and being physically active. Your health care team will show you how to give yourself insulin shots. Insulin will not harm your baby.

Question: What to do for What I need to know about Gestational Diabetes ?
Answer: - Gestational diabetes is a type of diabetes that develops only during pregnancy. Diabetes means your blood glucose, also called blood sugar, is too high.  - Gestational diabetes happens when your body can't make enough insulin during pregnancy. Insulin is a hormone made in your pancreas, an organ located behind your stomach. Insulin helps your body use glucose for energy and helps control your blood glucose levels.  - You will probably be tested for gestational diabetes between weeks 24 and 28 of your pregnancy. If you have a higher chance of getting gestational diabetes, your doctor may test you for diabetes during your first visit after you become pregnant.  - If you have high blood glucose levels because your gestational diabetes is not under control, your baby will also have high blood glucose.  - Untreated or uncontrolled gestational diabetes can cause problems for your baby.  - Treating gestational diabetes means taking steps to keep your blood glucose levels in a target range.  - Even if your blood glucose levels return to normal after your pregnancy, your chances of getting diabetesusually type 2 diabeteslater in life are high. Therefore, you should be tested at least every 3 years for diabetes or prediabetes.  - You can give your baby a healthy start by breastfeeding.  - You can help your child be healthy by showing your child how to make healthy lifestyle choices, including being physically active, limiting screen time in front of the TV or video games, eating a healthy diet, and staying at a healthy weight.

Question: What to do for Diabetic Retinopathy ?
Answer: If you have diabetes, get a comprehensive dilated eye exam at least once a year. Proliferative retinopathy can develop without symptoms. If it gets to this advanced stage, you are at high risk for vision loss or even blindness. Macular edema can develop without symptoms at any of the four stages of diabetic retinopathy. You can develop both proliferative retinopathy and macular edema and still see fine. However, you are at high risk for vision loss. Your eye care professional can tell if you have macular edema or any stage of diabetic retinopathy. Whether or not you have symptoms, early detection and timely treatment can prevent vision loss.  See this glossary for basic terms about diabetic retinopathy.

Question: What to do for Medicare and Continuing Care ?
Answer: Nursing home care can be very expensive. Medicare generally doesn't cover nursing home care. There are many ways people can pay for nursing home care. For example, they can use their own money, they may be able to get help from their state, or they may use long-term care insurance. Nursing home care isn't covered by many types of health insurance. Most people who enter nursing homes begin by paying for their care out of their own pocket. As they use up their resources over a period of time, they may eventually become eligible for Medicaid. Medicaid is a state and Federal program that will pay most nursing home costs for people with limited income and resources. Eligibility varies by state. Medicaid pays for care for about 7 out of every 10 nursing home residents. Medicaid will pay for nursing home care only when provided in a Medicaid-certified facility. For information about Medicaid eligibility, call your state Medical Assistance (Medicaid) Office. If you have questions about Medicaid, you can call your State Medical Assistance (Medicaid) office for more information. Visit http://www.medicare.gov on the web. (Under "Search Tools," select "Find Helpful Phone Numbers and Websites.") Or, call 1-800-Medicare (1-800-633-4227) to get the telephone number. TTY users should call 1-877-486-2048.

Question: What to do for Alzheimer's Caregiving ?
Answer: Most people with Alzheimers disease are cared for at home by family members. Within families, caregiving is provided most often by wives and husbands, followed by daughters. As Alzheimers disease gets worse, the person will need more and more care. Because of this, you will need more help. It's okay to seek help whenever you need it. Building a local support system is a key way to get help. This system might include a caregiver support group, the local chapter of the Alzheimer's Association, family, friends, and faith groups. To learn where to get help in your community, contact - the Alzheimers Disease Education and Referral (ADEAR) Center, 1-800-438-4380 or visit www.nia.nih.gov/alzheimers  - the Alzheimer's Association at 1-800-272-3900.  the Alzheimers Disease Education and Referral (ADEAR) Center, 1-800-438-4380 or visit www.nia.nih.gov/alzheimers the Alzheimer's Association at 1-800-272-3900. Various professional services can help with everyday care in the home of someone with Alzheimers disease. Medicare, Medicaid, and other health insurance plans may help pay for these services. Contact Eldercare Locator to find the services you need in your area by calling 1-800-677-1116 or visiting  www.eldercare.gov. Home Health Care Services Home health care agencies send a home health aide or nurse to your home to help you care for a person with Alzheimers. They may come for a few hours or stay for 24 hours and are paid by the hour. Some home health aides are better trained and supervised than others. Ask your doctor or other health care professional about good home health care services in your area. Get as much information as possible about a service before you sign an agreement. Also, ask for and check references Here are some questions to ask before signing a home health care agreement. - Is your service licensed and accredited?  - How much do your services cost?  - What is included and not included in your services?  - How many days a week and hours a day will an aide come to my home?   - How do you check the background and experience of your home health aides?   - How do you train your home health aides?   - What types of emergency care can you provide?   - Who do I contact if there is a problem?  Is your service licensed and accredited? How much do your services cost? What is included and not included in your services? How many days a week and hours a day will an aide come to my home? How do you check the background and experience of your home health aides? How do you train your home health aides? What types of emergency care can you provide? Who do I contact if there is a problem? For information about how to find home health care services, see Caring for a Person with Alzheimers Disease. Meal Services Meal services bring hot meals to the person's home or your home. The delivery staff does not feed the person. The person with Alzheimers disease must qualify for the service based on local guidelines. Some groups do not charge for their services. Others may charge a small fee. For information, call Eldercare Locator at 1-800-677-1116 or go to  www.eldercare.gov. You may also contact Meals on Wheels at 1-888-998-6325. Adult Day Care Services Adult day care services provide a safe environment, activities, and staff who take care of the person with Alzheimers at their own facility. This provides a much-needed break for you. Many programs provide transportation between the persons home and the facility. Adult day care services generally charge by the hour. Most insurance plans do not cover these costs. To find adult day care services in your area, contact the National Adult Day Services Association at 1-877-745-1440. Watch a video to learn more about the services provided at adult day care.  Respite Services Respite services provide short stays, from a few days to a few weeks, in a nursing home or other place for the person with Alzheimers disease. This care allows you to get a break or go on a vacation. Respite services charge by the number of days or weeks that services are provided. Medicare or Medicaid may cover the cost of up to 5 days in a row of respite care in an inpatient facility. Most private insurance plans do not cover these costs. To find respite services in your community, call the National Respite Locator Service at 1-800-773-5433 (toll-free). Geriatric Care Managers Geriatric care managers visit your home to assess your needs and suggest and arrange home-care services. They charge by the hour. Most insurance plans don't cover these costs. To find a geriatric care manager, contact the National Association of Professional Geriatric Care Managers at 1-520-881-8008. Mental Health Professionals and Social Workers Mental health professionals and social workers help you deal with any stress you may be feeling. They help you understand feelings, such as anger, sadness, or feeling out of control. They can also help you make plans for unexpected or sudden events. Mental health professionals charge by the hour. Medicare, Medicaid, and some private health insurance plans may cover some of these costs. Ask your health insurance plan which mental health counselors and services it covers. Then check with your doctor, local family service agencies, and community mental health agencies for referrals to counselors.

Question: What to do for Alzheimer's Caregiving ?
Answer: As Alzheimers disease gets worse, you will need more help to care for the person. It's okay to seek help whenever you need it. Several kinds of help are available. - Home health care agencies send a home health aide or nurse to your home to help you care for a person with Alzheimers. They may come for a few hours or stay for 24 hours and are paid by the hour.  Home health care agencies send a home health aide or nurse to your home to help you care for a person with Alzheimers. They may come for a few hours or stay for 24 hours and are paid by the hour. - Meal services bring hot meals to the person's home or your home. The delivery staff does not feed the person. Some groups do not charge for their services. Others may charge a small fee. Meal services bring hot meals to the person's home or your home. The delivery staff does not feed the person. Some groups do not charge for their services. Others may charge a small fee. - Adult day care services provide a safe environment, activities, and staff who take care of the person with Alzheimers at their own facility. Many programs provide transportation between the persons home and the facility.  Watch a video to see what services adult day care provides. Adult day care services provide a safe environment, activities, and staff who take care of the person with Alzheimers at their own facility. Many programs provide transportation between the persons home and the facility.  Watch a video to see what services adult day care provides. - Geriatric care managers visit your home to assess your needs and suggest and arrange home-care services. They charge by the hour. Most insurance plans don't cover these costs.  Geriatric care managers visit your home to assess your needs and suggest and arrange home-care services. They charge by the hour. Most insurance plans don't cover these costs.

