Question: how common are these diseases for Marine Toxins ?
Answer: Every year, approximately 30 cases of poisoning by marine toxins are reported in the United States. Because healthcare providers are not required to report these illnesses and because many milder cases are not diagnosed or reported, the actual number of poisonings may be much greater. Toxic seafood poisonings are more common in the summer than winter because dinoflagelates grow well in warmer seasons. It is estimated from cases with available data that one person dies every 4 years from toxic seafood poisonings.

Question: how common is botulism?
Answer: In the United States, an average of 145 cases are reported each year.Of these, approximately 15% are foodborne, 65% are infant botulism, and 20% are wound. Adult intestinal colonization and iatrogenic botulism also occur, but rarely. Outbreaks of foodborne botulism involving two or more persons occur most years and are usually caused by home-canned foods. Most wound botulism cases are associated with black-tar heroin injection, especially in California.

Question: how common is infection with y. enterocolitica for Yersinia ?
Answer: Y. enterocolitica is a relatively infrequent cause of diarrhea and abdominal pain. Based on data from the Foodborne Diseases Active Surveillance Network (FoodNet), which measures the burden and sources of specific diseases over time, approximately one culture-confirmed Y. enterocolitica infection per 100,000 persons occurs each year. Children are infected more often than adults, and the infection is more common in the winter.

Question: How many people are affected by Celiac Disease ?
Answer: As many as one in 141 Americans has celiac disease, although most remain undiagnosed.2 Celiac disease affects children and adults in all parts of the world and is more common in Caucasians and females.
                
Celiac disease is also more common among people with certain genetic diseases, including Down syndrome and Turner syndromea condition that affects girls' development.

Question: How many people are affected by Urinary Tract Infection In Adults ?
Answer: Urinary tract infections are the second most common type of infection in the body, accounting for about 8.1 million visits to health care providers each year.1 Women are especially prone to UTIs for anatomical reasons. One factor is that a womans urethra is shorter, allowing bacteria quicker access to the bladder. Also, a womans urethral opening is near sources of bacteria from the anus and vagina. For women, the lifetime risk of having a UTI is greater than 50 percent.2 UTIs in men are not as common as in women but can be serious when they occur.

Question: How many people are affected by Acromegaly ?
Answer: Small pituitary adenomas are common, affecting about 17 percent of the population.1 However, research suggests most of these tumors do not cause symptoms and rarely produce excess GH.2 Scientists estimate that three to four out of every million people develop acromegaly each year and about 60 out of every million people suffer from the disease at any time.3 Because the clinical diagnosis of acromegaly is often missed, these numbers probably underestimate the frequency of the disease.

Question: How many people are affected by Polycystic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: Estimates of PKDs prevalence range from one in 400 to one in 1,000 people.1 According to the United States Renal Data System, PKD accounts for 2.2 percent of new cases of kidney failure each year in the United States. Annually, eight people per 1 million have kidney failure as a result of PKD.2
                
Polycystic kidney disease exists around the world and in all races. The disorder occurs equally in women and men, although men are more likely to develop kidney failure from PKD. Women with PKD and high blood pressure who have had more than three pregnancies also have an increased chance of developing kidney failure.

Question: How many people are affected by Acquired Cystic Kidney Disease ?
Answer: Acquired cystic kidney disease becomes more common the longer a person has CKD.
                
- About 7 to 22 percent of people with CKD already have acquired cystic kidney disease before starting dialysis treatments.  - Almost 60 percent of people on dialysis for 2 to 4 years develop acquired cystic kidney disease.1  - About 90 percent of people on dialysis for 8 years develop acquired cystic kidney disease.1

Question: How many people are affected by Prostate Enlargement: Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia ?
Answer: Benign prostatic hyperplasia is the most common prostate problem for men older than age 50. In 2010, as many as 14 million men in the United States had lower urinary tract symptoms suggestive of benign prostatic hyperplasia.1 Although benign prostatic hyperplasia rarely causes symptoms before age 40, the occurrence and symptoms increase with age. Benign prostatic hyperplasia affects about 50 percent of men between the ages of 51 and 60 and up to 90 percent of men older than 80.2

Question: How many people are affected by Cyclic Vomiting Syndrome ?
Answer: Cyclic vomiting syndrome is more common in children than adults, although reports of the syndrome in adults have increased in recent years.1 Usually, children are about 5 years old when diagnosed with cyclic vomiting syndrome, which occurs in every three out of 100,000 children.2

Question: How many people are affected by Urinary Retention ?
Answer: Urinary retention in men becomes more common with age.
                
- In men 40 to 83 years old, the overall incidence of urinary retention is 4.5 to 6.8 per 1,000 men.2  - For men in their 70s, the overall incidence increases to 100 per 1,000 men.2  - For men in their 80s, the incidence of acute urinary retention is 300 per 1,000 men.2
                
Urinary retention in women is less common, though not rare.3 The incidence of urinary retention in women has not been well studied because researchers have primarily thought of urinary retention as a mans problem related to the prostate.4

Question: How many people are affected by Alagille Syndrome ?
Answer: Alagille syndrome occurs in about one of every 30,000 live births.3 The disorder affects both sexes equally and shows no geographical, racial, or ethnic preferences.
                
JAG1 and NOTCH2 gene mutations are inherited in an autosomal dominant way, which means a child can get Alagille syndrome by inheriting either of the gene mutations from only one parent. Each child of a parent with an autosomal dominant mutation has a 50 percent chance of inheriting the mutated gene.
                
The following chart shows the chance of inheriting an autosomal dominant gene mutation:
                
The gene mutations that cause Alagille syndrome may cause mild or subtle symptoms. Some people may not know they are affected, while others with the gene mutation may develop more serious characteristics of Alagille syndrome. A person with a gene mutation, whether showing serious symptoms or not, has Alagille syndrome and can pass the gene mutation to a child.
                
Read more about how genetic conditions are inherited at the NLM's Genetics Home Reference website at www.ghr.nlm.nih.gov.

Question: How many people are affected by Urinary Incontinence in Men ?
Answer: Urinary incontinence occurs in 11 to 34 percent of older men. Two to 11 percent of older men report daily UI.1 Although more women than men develop UI, the chances of a man developing UI increase with age because he is more likely to develop prostate problems as he ages. Men are also less likely to speak with a health care professional about UI, so UI in men is probably far more common than statistics show. Having a discussion with a health care professional about UI is the first step to fixing this treatable problem.

Question: How many people are affected by Prolactinoma ?
Answer: Although small benign pituitary tumors are fairly common in the general population, symptomatic prolactinomas are uncommon. Prolactinomas occur more often in women than men and rarely occur in children.

Question: How many people are affected by Peyronie's Disease ?
Answer: Researchers estimate that Peyronies disease may affect 1 to 23 percent of men between 40 and 70 years of age.1 However, the actual occurrence of Peyronies disease may be higher due to mens embarrassment and health care providers limited reporting.1 The disease is rare in young men, although it has been reported in men in their 30s.1 The chance of developing Peyronies disease increases with age.

Question: How many people are affected by Kidney Dysplasia ?
Answer: Kidney dysplasia is a common condition. Scientists estimate that kidney dysplasia affects about one in 4,000 babies.1 This estimate may be low because some people with kidney dysplasia are never diagnosed with the condition. About half of the babies diagnosed with this condition have other urinary tract defects.2

Question: How many people are affected by Porphyria ?
Answer: The exact rates of porphyria are unknown and vary around the world. For example, porphyria cutanea tarda is most common in the United States, and variegate porphyria is most common in South America.1

Question: How many people are affected by Hemorrhoids ?
Answer: About 75 percent of people will have hemorrhoids at some point in their lives.1 Hemorrhoids are most common among adults ages 45 to 65.2 Hemorrhoids are also common in pregnant women.

Question: How many people are affected by Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ?
Answer: Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is rare and only occurs in about one in every 1 million people.1 Although anyone can get Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, the disease is more common among men 30 to 50 years old. A child who has a parent with MEN1 is also at increased risk for Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.2

Question: How many people are affected by IgA Nephropathy ?
Answer: IgA nephropathy is one of the most common kidney diseases, other than those caused by diabetes or high blood pressure.1
                
IgA nephropathy can occur at any age, although the first evidence of kidney disease most frequently appears when people are in their teens to late 30s.2 IgA nephropathy in the United States is twice as likely to appear in men than in women.3 While found in people all over the world, IgA nephropathy is more common among Asians and Caucasians.4
                
A person may be more likely to develop IgA nephropathy if
                
- he or she has a family history of IgA nephropathy or Henoch-Schnlein purpuraa disease that causes small blood vessels in the body to become inflamed and leak  - he is a male in his teens to late 30s  - he or she is Asian or Caucasian

Question: How many people are affected by Urinary Tract Infections in Children ?
Answer: Urinary tract infections affect about 3 percent of children in the United States every year. UTIs account for more than 1 million visits to pediatricians offices every year.1

Question: How many people are affected by Medullary Sponge Kidney ?
Answer: Medullary sponge kidney affects about one person per 5,000 people in the United States. Researchers have reported that 12 to 20 percent of people who develop calcium-based kidney stones have medullary sponge kidney1.

Question: How many people are affected by Short Bowel Syndrome ?
Answer: Short bowel syndrome is a rare condition. Each year, short bowel syndrome affects about three out of every million people.1

Question: How many people are affected by Urinary Incontinence in Children ?
Answer: By 5 years of age, more than 90 percent of children can control urination during the day. Nighttime wetting is more common than daytime wetting in children, affecting 30 percent of 4-year-olds. The condition resolves itself in about 15 percent of children each year; about 10 percent of 7-year-olds, 3 percent of 12-year-olds, and 1 percent of 18-year-olds continue to experience nighttime wetting.1

Question: How many people are affected by Irritable Bowel Syndrome in Children ?
Answer: Limited information is available about the number of children with IBS. Older studies have reported prevalence rates for recurrent abdominal pain in children of 10 to 20 percent.1 However, these studies did not differentiate IBS from functional abdominal pain, indigestion, and abdominal migraine. One study of children in North America found that 14 percent of high school students and 6 percent of middle school students have IBS. The study also found that IBS affects boys and girls equally.2

Question: How many people are affected by Osteoarthritis ?
Answer: The chance of developing osteoarthritis increases with age. It is estimated that 33.6% (12.4 million) of individuals age 65 and older are affected by the disease.

Question: How many people are affected by Prostate Cancer ?
Answer: Prostate cancer is one of the most common types of cancer among American men. It is a slow-growing disease that mostly affects older men. In fact, more than 60 percent of all prostate cancers are found in men over the age of 65. The disease rarely occurs in men younger than 40 years of age.

Question: How many people are affected by Heart Failure ?
Answer: Approximately 5 million people in the United States have heart failure. It contributes to 300,000 deaths each year. It is the number one cause of hospitalizations for people over the age of 65.

Question: How many people are affected by Problems with Taste ?
Answer: Roughly 200,000 people each year visit a doctor for a chemosensory problem such as a taste disorder. Many more taste disorders go unreported.

Question: How many people are affected by Heart Attack ?
Answer: Very common. Each year, more than 1 million people in the U.S. have a heart attack and about half of them die. About one-half of those who die do so within 1 hour of the start of symptoms and before reaching the hospital.

Question: How many people are affected by Colorectal Cancer ?
Answer: Colorectal cancer accounts for almost ten percent of all cancer deaths in the United States. The risk of developing colorectal cancer rises after age 50. It is common in both men and women.

Question: How many people are affected by Hearing Loss ?
Answer: Approximately 17 percent, or 36 million, of American adults say that they have some degree of hearing loss. Hearing loss is a common condition in older adults. Roughly one-third of Americans 65 to 74 years of age and 47 percent of those 75 and older have hearing loss.

Question: How many people are affected by Balance Problems ?
Answer: In 2008, an estimated 14.8 percent of American adults (33.4 million) had a balance or dizziness problem during the past year. See statistics about the frequency of balance and other sensory impairments in older adults.  (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)

Question: How many people are affected by Anxiety Disorders ?
Answer: Studies estimate that anxiety disorders affect around 15 percent of older adults in a given year. More women than men experience anxiety disorders. They tend to be less common among older adults than younger adults. But developing an anxiety disorder late in life is not a normal part of aging.

Question: How many people are affected by cyclic neutropenia ?
Answer: Cyclic neutropenia is a rare condition and is estimated to occur in 1 in 1 million individuals worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Behet disease ?
Answer: Behet disease is most common in Mediterranean countries, the Middle East, Japan, and other parts of Asia. However, it has been found in populations worldwide.  The highest prevalence of Behet disease has been reported in Turkey, where the disorder affects up to 420 in 100,000 people. The disorder is much less common in northern European countries and the United States, where it generally affects fewer than 1 in 100,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by Nijmegen breakage syndrome ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of Nijmegen breakage syndrome is unknown. This condition is estimated to affect one in 100,000 newborns worldwide, but is thought to be most common in the Slavic populations of Eastern Europe.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital stromal corneal dystrophy ?
Answer: Congenital stromal corneal dystrophy is probably very rare; only a few affected families have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Beare-Stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome ?
Answer: Beare-Stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome is a rare genetic disorder; its incidence is unknown. Fewer than 20 people with this condition have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by porphyria ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of porphyria is unknown, but it probably ranges from 1 in 500 to 1 in 50,000 people worldwide. Overall, porphyria cutanea tarda is the most common type of porphyria. For some forms of porphyria, the prevalence is unknown because many people with a genetic mutation associated with the disease never experience signs or symptoms.  Acute intermittent porphyria is the most common form of acute porphyria in most countries. It may occur more frequently in northern European countries, such as Sweden, and in the United Kingdom. Another form of the disorder, hereditary coproporphyria, has been reported mostly in Europe and North America. Variegate porphyria is most common in the Afrikaner population of South Africa; about 3 in 1,000 people in this population have the genetic change that causes this form of the disorder.

Question: How many people are affected by isodicentric chromosome 15 syndrome ?
Answer: Isodicentric chromosome 15 syndrome occurs in about 1 in 30,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by polymicrogyria ?
Answer: The prevalence of isolated polymicrogyria is unknown. Researchers believe that it may be relatively common overall, although the individual forms of the disorder (such as bilateral generalized polymicrogyria) are probably rare.

Question: How many people are affected by Pompe disease ?
Answer: Pompe disease affects about 1 in 40,000 people in the United States. The incidence of this disorder varies among different ethnic groups.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary xanthinuria ?
Answer: The combined incidence of hereditary xanthinuria types I and II is estimated to be about 1 in 69,000 people worldwide. However, researchers suspect that the true incidence may be higher because some affected individuals have no symptoms and are never diagnosed with the condition. Hereditary xanthinuria appears to be more common in people of Mediterranean or Middle Eastern ancestry. About 150 cases of this condition have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by hyperkalemic periodic paralysis ?
Answer: Hyperkalemic periodic paralysis affects an estimated 1 in 200,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by arginase deficiency ?
Answer: Arginase deficiency is a very rare disorder; it has been estimated to occur once in every 300,000 to 1,000,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by neuroblastoma ?
Answer: Neuroblastoma is the most common cancer in infants younger than 1 year. It occurs in 1 in 100,000 children and is diagnosed in about 650 children each year in the United States.

Question: How many people are affected by Birt-Hogg-Dub syndrome ?
Answer: Birt-Hogg-Dub syndrome is rare; its exact incidence is unknown. This condition has been reported in more than 400 families.

Question: How many people are affected by N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency ?
Answer: N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency is a very rare disorder. Only a few cases have been reported worldwide, and the overall incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Winchester syndrome ?
Answer: Winchester syndrome is a rare condition whose prevalence is unknown. It has been reported in only a few individuals worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Wolman disease ?
Answer: Wolman disease is estimated to occur in 1 in 350,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by purine nucleoside phosphorylase deficiency ?
Answer: Purine nucleoside phosphorylase deficiency is rare; only about 70 affected individuals have been identified. This disorder accounts for approximately 4 percent of all SCID cases.

Question: How many people are affected by Cushing disease ?
Answer: Cushing disease is estimated to occur in 10 to 15 per million people worldwide. For reasons that are unclear, Cushing disease affects females more often than males.

Question: How many people are affected by pseudoxanthoma elasticum ?
Answer: PXE affects approximately 1 in 50,000 people worldwide. For reasons that are unclear, this disorder is diagnosed twice as frequently in females as in males.

Question: How many people are affected by beta-mannosidosis ?
Answer: Beta-mannosidosis is believed to be a very rare disorder. Approximately 20 affected individuals have been reported worldwide. It is difficult to determine the specific incidence of beta-mannosidosis, because people with mild or non-specific symptoms may never be diagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by spondylocostal dysostosis ?
Answer: Spondylocostal dysostosis is a rare condition, although its exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by biotinidase deficiency ?
Answer: Profound or partial biotinidase deficiency occurs in approximately 1 in 60,000 newborns

Question: How many people are affected by erythrokeratodermia variabilis et progressiva ?
Answer: EKVP is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 ?
Answer: PHA1 is a rare condition that has been estimated to affect 1 in 80,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by trichothiodystrophy ?
Answer: Trichothiodystrophy has an estimated incidence of about 1 in 1 million newborns in the United States and Europe. About 100 affected individuals have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by hemophilia ?
Answer: The two major forms of hemophilia occur much more commonly in males than in females. Hemophilia A is the most common type of the condition; 1 in 4,000 to 1 in 5,000 males worldwide are born with this disorder. Hemophilia B occurs in approximately 1 in 20,000 newborn males worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by gnathodiaphyseal dysplasia ?
Answer: The prevalence of gnathodiaphyseal dysplasia is unknown, but it is thought to be a rare disorder. A few affected individuals and families have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by primary spontaneous pneumothorax ?
Answer: Primary spontaneous pneumothorax is more common in men than in women. This condition occurs in 7.4 to 18 per 100,000 men each year and 1.2 to 6 per 100,000 women each year.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary paraganglioma-pheochromocytoma ?
Answer: Hereditary paraganglioma-pheochromocytoma occurs in approximately 1 in 1 million people.

Question: How many people are affected by arterial tortuosity syndrome ?
Answer: Arterial tortuosity syndrome is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. About 100 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by deafness and myopia syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of deafness and myopia syndrome is unknown. Only a few affected families have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by primary sclerosing cholangitis ?
Answer: An estimated 1 in 10,000 people have primary sclerosing cholangitis, and the condition is diagnosed in approximately 1 in 100,000 people per year worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by succinyl-CoA:3-ketoacid CoA transferase deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of SCOT deficiency is unknown. More than 20 cases of this condition have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans ?
Answer: Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans is estimated to occur in 1 in 100,000 to 1 in 1 million people per year.

Question: How many people are affected by Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome ?
Answer: Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome is uncommon; it affects an estimated 1.6 to 6 per 1 million people worldwide. This condition has a higher prevalence in Denmark, where it affects at least 1 in 200,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by isolated Pierre Robin sequence ?
Answer: Isolated Pierre Robin sequence affects an estimated 1 in 8,500 to 14,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by prolidase deficiency ?
Answer: Prolidase deficiency is a rare disorder. Approximately 70 individuals with this disorder have been documented in the medical literature, and researchers have estimated that the condition occurs in approximately 1 in 1 million to 1 in 2 million newborns. It is more common in certain areas in northern Israel, both among members of a religious minority called the Druze and in nearby Arab Moslem populations.

Question: How many people are affected by Melnick-Needles syndrome ?
Answer: Melnick-Needles syndrome is a rare disorder; fewer than 100 cases have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by restless legs syndrome ?
Answer: Restless legs syndrome is one of the most common sleep and movement disorders. It affects an estimated 5 to 10 percent of adults and 2 to 4 percent of children in the United States. For unknown reasons, the disorder affects women more often than men. The prevalence of restless legs syndrome increases with age.

Question: How many people are affected by inclusion body myopathy with early-onset Paget disease and frontotemporal dementia ?
Answer: Although the prevalence of IBMPFD is unknown, this condition is rare. It has been identified in about 26 families.

Question: How many people are affected by Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome ?
Answer: Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome affects 1 to 3 in 1,000 people worldwide. Only a small fraction of these cases appear to run in families.  Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome is a common cause of an arrhythmia known as paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome is the most frequent cause of this abnormal heart rhythm in the Chinese population, where it is responsible for more than 70 percent of cases.

Question: How many people are affected by alpha thalassemia ?
Answer: Alpha thalassemia is a fairly common blood disorder worldwide. Thousands of infants with Hb Bart syndrome and HbH disease are born each year, particularly in Southeast Asia. Alpha thalassemia also occurs frequently in people from Mediterranean countries, North Africa, the Middle East, India, and Central Asia.

Question: How many people are affected by KBG syndrome ?
Answer: KBG syndrome is a rare disorder that has been reported in around 60 individuals. For unknown reasons, males are affected more often than females. Doctors think the disorder is underdiagnosed because the signs and symptoms can be mild and may be attributed to other disorders.

Question: How many people are affected by Greenberg dysplasia ?
Answer: Greenberg dysplasia is a very rare condition. Approximately ten cases have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by familial porencephaly ?
Answer: Familial porencephaly is a rare condition, although the exact prevalence is unknown. At least eight affected families have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by psoriatic arthritis ?
Answer: Psoriatic arthritis affects an estimated 24 in 10,000 people.  Between 5 and 10 percent of people with psoriasis develop psoriatic arthritis, according to most estimates. Some studies suggest a figure as high as 30 percent. Psoriasis itself is a common disorder, affecting approximately 2 to 3 percent of the population worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency ?
Answer: Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency is a rare disorder; its overall incidence is unknown. Researchers in Japan have estimated that it occurs in 1 in 800,000 newborns in that country.

Question: How many people are affected by rheumatoid arthritis ?
Answer: Rheumatoid arthritis affects about 1.3 million adults in the United States. Worldwide, it is estimated to occur in up to 1 percent of the population. The disease is two to three times more common in women than in men, which may be related to hormonal factors.

Question: How many people are affected by generalized arterial calcification of infancy ?
Answer: The prevalence of GACI has been estimated to be about 1 in 391,000. At least 200 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by PPM-X syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of PPM-X syndrome is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by spinocerebellar ataxia type 36 ?
Answer: Approximately 100 individuals with SCA36 have been reported in the scientific literature. Almost all of these individuals have been from two regions: western Japan and the Costa de Morte in Galicia, Spain.

Question: How many people are affected by Niemann-Pick disease ?
Answer: Niemann-Pick disease types A and B is estimated to affect 1 in 250,000 individuals. Niemann-Pick disease type A occurs more frequently among individuals of Ashkenazi (eastern and central European) Jewish descent than in the general population. The incidence within the Ashkenazi population is approximately 1 in 40,000 individuals.  Combined, Niemann-Pick disease types C1 and C2 are estimated to affect 1 in 150,000 individuals; however, type C1 is by far the more common type, accounting for 95 percent of cases. The disease occurs more frequently in people of French-Acadian descent in Nova Scotia. In Nova Scotia, a population of affected French-Acadians were previously designated as having Niemann-Pick disease type D, however, it was shown that these individuals have mutations in the gene associated with Niemann-Pick disease type C1.

Question: How many people are affected by RAPADILINO syndrome ?
Answer: RAPADILINO syndrome is a rare condition, although its worldwide prevalence is unknown. The condition was first identified in Finland, where it affects an estimated 1 in 75,000 individuals, although it has since been found in other regions.

Question: How many people are affected by steatocystoma multiplex ?
Answer: Although the prevalence of steatocystoma multiplex is unknown, it appears to be rare.

Question: How many people are affected by alpha-mannosidosis ?
Answer: Alpha-mannosidosis is estimated to occur in approximately 1 in 500,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Freeman-Sheldon syndrome ?
Answer: Freeman-Sheldon syndrome is a rare disorder; its exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by severe congenital neutropenia ?
Answer: The incidence of severe congenital neutropenia is estimated to be 1 in 200,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by Vohwinkel syndrome ?
Answer: Vohwinkel syndrome is a rare disorder; about 50 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by thanatophoric dysplasia ?
Answer: This condition occurs in 1 in 20,000 to 50,000 newborns. Type I thanatophoric dysplasia is more common than type II.

Question: How many people are affected by GRACILE syndrome ?
Answer: GRACILE syndrome is found almost exclusively in Finland, where it is estimated to affect 1 in 47,000 infants. At least 32 affected infants have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by coloboma ?
Answer: Coloboma occurs in approximately 1 in 10,000 people. Because coloboma does not always affect vision or the outward appearance of the eye, some people with this condition are likely undiagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by Brody myopathy ?
Answer: Brody myopathy is a rare condition, although its exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by isolated lissencephaly sequence ?
Answer: ILS affects approximately 1 in 100,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by homocystinuria ?
Answer: The most common form of homocystinuria affects at least 1 in 200,000 to 335,000 people worldwide. The disorder appears to be more common in some countries, such as Ireland (1 in 65,000), Germany (1 in 17,800), Norway (1 in 6,400), and Qatar (1 in 1,800). The rarer forms of homocystinuria each have a small number of cases reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked congenital stationary night blindness ?
Answer: The prevalence of this condition is unknown. It appears to be more common in people of Dutch-German Mennonite descent. However, this disorder has been reported in families with many different ethnic backgrounds. The incomplete form is more common than the complete form.

Question: How many people are affected by cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia ?
Answer: Acute myeloid leukemia occurs in approximately 3.5 per 100,000 individuals each year. Forty to 50 percent of people with acute myeloid leukemia have CN-AML.

Question: How many people are affected by adermatoglyphia ?
Answer: Adermatoglyphia appears to be a rare condition. Only a few affected families have been identified worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked lissencephaly with abnormal genitalia ?
Answer: The incidence of XLAG is unknown; approximately 30 affected families have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by prothrombin thrombophilia ?
Answer: Prothrombin thrombophilia is the second most common inherited form of thrombophilia after factor V Leiden thrombophilia. Approximately 1 in 50 people in the white population in the United States and Europe has prothrombin thrombophilia. This condition is less common in other ethnic groups, occurring in less than one percent of African American, Native American, or Asian populations.

Question: How many people are affected by catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia ?
Answer: The prevalence of CPVT is estimated to be about 1 in 10,000 people. However, the true prevalence of this condition is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Schinzel-Giedion syndrome ?
Answer: Schinzel-Giedion syndrome is very rare, although the exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by PRICKLE1-related progressive myoclonus epilepsy with ataxia ?
Answer: The prevalence of PRICKLE1-related progressive myoclonus epilepsy with ataxia is unknown. The condition has been reported in three large families from Jordan and northern Israel and in at least two unrelated individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by autosomal dominant vitreoretinochoroidopathy ?
Answer: ADVIRC is considered a rare disease. Its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by pyruvate carboxylase deficiency ?
Answer: Pyruvate carboxylase deficiency is a rare condition, with an estimated incidence of 1 in 250,000 births worldwide. This disorder appears to be much more common in some Algonkian Indian tribes in eastern Canada.

Question: How many people are affected by spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita ?
Answer: This condition is rare; the exact incidence is unknown. More than 175 cases have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by palmoplantar keratoderma with deafness ?
Answer: Palmoplantar keratoderma with deafness is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. At least 10 affected families have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by 47,XYY syndrome ?
Answer: This condition occurs in about 1 in 1,000 newborn boys. Five to 10 boys with 47,XYY syndrome are born in the United States each day.

Question: How many people are affected by Leydig cell hypoplasia ?
Answer: Leydig cell hypoplasia is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus ?
Answer: About 1 in 400,000 infants are diagnosed with diabetes mellitus in the first few months of life. However, in about half of these babies the condition is transient and goes away on its own by age 18 months. The remainder are considered to have permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus.

Question: How many people are affected by Camurati-Engelmann disease ?
Answer: The prevalence of Camurati-Engelmann disease is unknown. Approximately 200 cases have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital contractural arachnodactyly ?
Answer: The prevalence of congenital contractural arachnodactyly is estimated to be less than 1 in 10,000 worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Cole disease ?
Answer: Cole disease is a rare disease; its prevalence is unknown. Only a few affected families have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital central hypoventilation syndrome ?
Answer: CCHS is a relatively rare disorder. Approximately 1,000 individuals with this condition have been identified. Researchers believe that some cases of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) or sudden unexplained death in children may be caused by undiagnosed CCHS.

Question: How many people are affected by Aicardi syndrome ?
Answer: Aicardi syndrome is a very rare disorder. It occurs in about 1 in 105,000 to 167,000 newborns in the United States. Researchers estimate that there are approximately 4,000 affected individuals worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: In the United States, the estimated incidence of MCAD deficiency is 1 in 17,000 people. The condition is more common in people of northern European ancestry than in other ethnic groups.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary hemochromatosis ?
Answer: Type 1 hemochromatosis is one of the most common genetic disorders in the United States, affecting about 1 million people. It most often affects people of Northern European descent. The other types of hemochromatosis are considered rare and have been studied in only a small number of families worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by incontinentia pigmenti ?
Answer: Incontinentia pigmenti is an uncommon disorder. Between 900 and 1,200 affected individuals have been reported in the scientific literature. Most of these individuals are female, but several dozen males with incontinentia pigmenti have also been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by Stve-Wiedemann syndrome ?
Answer: Stve-Wiedemann syndrome is a rare condition that has been found worldwide. Its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome ?
Answer: ALPS is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. More than 200 affected individuals have been identified worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by SOX2 anophthalmia syndrome ?
Answer: SOX2 anophthalmia syndrome is estimated to affect 1 in 250,000 individuals. About 10 percent to 15 percent of people with anophthalmia in both eyes have SOX2 anophthalmia syndrome.

Question: How many people are affected by spastic paraplegia type 31 ?
Answer: Spastic paraplegia type 31 is one of a subgroup of hereditary spastic paraplegias known as autosomal dominant hereditary spastic paraplegia, which has an estimated prevalence of one to 12 per 100,000 individuals. Spastic paraplegia type 31 accounts for 3 to 9 percent of all autosomal dominant hereditary spastic paraplegia cases.

Question: How many people are affected by microphthalmia with linear skin defects syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of microphthalmia with linear skin defects syndrome is unknown. More than 50 affected individuals have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa ?
Answer: Considered together, the incidence of all types of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa is estimated to be 6.5 per million newborns in the United States. The severe autosomal recessive forms of this disorder affect fewer than 1 per million newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by Leber congenital amaurosis ?
Answer: Leber congenital amaurosis occurs in 2 to 3 per 100,000 newborns. It is one of the most common causes of blindness in children.

Question: How many people are affected by aniridia ?
Answer: Aniridia occurs in 1 in 50,000 to 100,000 newborns worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease ?
Answer: The prevalence of Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease is estimated to be 1 in 200,000 to 500,000 males in the United States. This condition rarely affects females.

Question: How many people are affected by mucolipidosis type IV ?
Answer: Mucolipidosis type IV is estimated to occur in 1 in 40,000 people. About 70 percent of affected individuals have Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry.

Question: How many people are affected by thrombocytopenia-absent radius syndrome ?
Answer: TAR syndrome is a rare disorder, affecting fewer than 1 in 100,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by multiple pterygium syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of multiple pterygium syndrome is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary diffuse gastric cancer ?
Answer: Gastric cancer is the fourth most common form of cancer worldwide, affecting 900,000 people per year. HDGC probably accounts for less than 1 percent of these cases.

Question: How many people are affected by chronic atrial and intestinal dysrhythmia ?
Answer: The prevalence of CAID is unknown. At least 17 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type II ?
Answer: HSAN2 is a rare disease; however, the prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by immune dysregulation, polyendocrinopathy, enteropathy, X-linked syndrome ?
Answer: IPEX syndrome is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by desmoid tumor ?
Answer: Desmoid tumors are rare, affecting an estimated 1 to 2 per 500,000 people worldwide. In the United States, 900 to 1,500 new cases are diagnosed per year. Sporadic desmoid tumors are more common than those associated with familial adenomatous polyposis.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked sideroblastic anemia ?
Answer: This form of anemia is uncommon. However, researchers believe that it may not be as rare as they once thought. Increased awareness of the disease has led to more frequent diagnoses.

Question: How many people are affected by GM2-gangliosidosis, AB variant ?
Answer: The AB variant is extremely rare; only a few cases have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by CHST3-related skeletal dysplasia ?
Answer: The prevalence of CHST3-related skeletal dysplasia is unknown. More than 30 affected individuals have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by multiple cutaneous and mucosal venous malformations ?
Answer: VMCM appears to be a rare disorder, although its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia, Strudwick type ?
Answer: This condition is rare; only a few affected individuals have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome ?
Answer: The incidence of Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome is unknown. At least 130 people worldwide have been diagnosed with this disorder.

Question: How many people are affected by uromodulin-associated kidney disease ?
Answer: The prevalence of uromodulin-associated kidney disease is unknown. It accounts for fewer than 1 percent of cases of kidney disease.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked agammaglobulinemia ?
Answer: XLA occurs in approximately 1 in 200,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by juvenile Batten disease ?
Answer: Juvenile Batten disease is the most common type of NCL, but its exact prevalence is unknown. Collectively, all forms of NCL affect an estimated 1 in 100,000 individuals worldwide. NCLs are more common in Finland, where approximately 1 in 12,500 individuals are affected.

Question: How many people are affected by potassium-aggravated myotonia ?
Answer: This condition appears to be rare; it has been reported in only a few individuals and families worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by DICER1 syndrome ?
Answer: DICER1 syndrome is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Graves disease ?
Answer: Graves disease affects about 1 in 200 people. The disease occurs more often in women than in men, which may be related to hormonal factors. Graves disease is the most common cause of thyroid overactivity (hyperthyroidism) in the United States.

Question: How many people are affected by McCune-Albright syndrome ?
Answer: McCune-Albright syndrome occurs in between 1 in 100,000 and 1 in 1,000,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by SOST-related sclerosing bone dysplasia ?
Answer: SOST-related sclerosing bone dysplasia is a rare condition; its exact prevalence is unknown.  Approximately 100 individuals with sclerosteosis have been reported in the scientific literature. Sclerosteosis is most common in the Afrikaner population of South Africa.  Van Buchem disease has been reported in approximately 30 people. Most people with van Buchem disease are of Dutch ancestry.

Question: How many people are affected by rippling muscle disease ?
Answer: The prevalence of rippling muscle disease is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by juvenile myoclonic epilepsy ?
Answer: Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy affects an estimated 1 in 1,000 people worldwide. Approximately 5 percent of people with epilepsy have juvenile myoclonic epilepsy.

Question: How many people are affected by prostate cancer ?
Answer: About 1 in 7 men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer at some time during their life. In addition, studies indicate that many older men have undiagnosed prostate cancer that is non-aggressive and unlikely to cause symptoms or affect their lifespan. While most men who are diagnosed with prostate cancer do not die from it, this common cancer is still the second leading cause of cancer death among men in the United States.  More than 60 percent of prostate cancers are diagnosed after age 65, and the disorder is rare before age 40. In the United States, African Americans have a higher risk of developing prostate cancer than do men of other ethnic backgrounds, and they also have a higher risk of dying from the disease.

Question: How many people are affected by maternally inherited diabetes and deafness ?
Answer: About 1 percent of people with diabetes have MIDD. The condition is most common in the Japanese population and has been found in populations worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Klippel-Feil syndrome ?
Answer: Klippel-Feil syndrome is estimated to occur in 1 in 40,000 to 42,000 newborns worldwide. Females seem to be affected slightly more often than males.

Question: How many people are affected by abdominal wall defect ?
Answer: Abdominal wall defects are uncommon. Omphalocele affects an estimated 2 to 2.5 in 10,000 newborns. Approximately 2 to 6 in 10,000 newborns are affected by gastroschisis, although researchers have observed that this malformation is becoming more common. Abdominal wall defects are more common among pregnancies that do not survive to term (miscarriages and stillbirths).

Question: How many people are affected by REN-related kidney disease ?
Answer: REN-related kidney disease is a rare condition. At least three families with this condition have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by familial hyperaldosteronism ?
Answer: The prevalence of familial hyperaldosteronism is unknown. Familial hyperaldosteronism type II appears to be the most common variety. All types of familial hyperaldosteronism combined account for fewer than 1 out of 10 cases of hyperaldosteronism.

Question: How many people are affected by acral peeling skin syndrome ?
Answer: Acral peeling skin syndrome is a rare condition, with several dozen cases reported in the medical literature. However, because its signs and symptoms tend to be mild and similar to those of other skin disorders, the condition is likely underdiagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by otospondylomegaepiphyseal dysplasia ?
Answer: This condition is rare; the prevalence is unknown. Only a few families with OSMED have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency ?
Answer: X-linked SCID is the most common form of severe combined immunodeficiency. Its exact incidence is unknown, but the condition probably affects at least 1 in 50,000 to 100,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by Czech dysplasia ?
Answer: The prevalence of Czech dysplasia is unknown; at least 11 families have been affected. Most of these families reside in the Czech Republic.

Question: How many people are affected by Rett syndrome ?
Answer: This condition affects an estimated 1 in 8,500 females.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital afibrinogenemia ?
Answer: Congenital afibrinogenemia is a rare condition that occurs in approximately 1 in 1 million newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by GM1 gangliosidosis ?
Answer: GM1 gangliosidosis is estimated to occur in 1 in 100,000 to 200,000 newborns. Type I is reported more frequently than the other forms of this condition. Most individuals with type III are of Japanese descent.

Question: How many people are affected by alkaptonuria ?
Answer: This condition is rare, affecting 1 in 250,000 to 1 million people worldwide. Alkaptonuria is more common in certain areas of Slovakia (where it has an incidence of about 1 in 19,000 people) and in the Dominican Republic.

Question: How many people are affected by benign chronic pemphigus ?
Answer: Benign chronic pemphigus is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Silver syndrome ?
Answer: Although Silver syndrome appears to be a rare condition, its exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary folate malabsorption ?
Answer: The prevalence of hereditary folate malabsorption is unknown. Approximately 15 affected families have been reported worldwide. Researchers believe that some infants with this disorder may not get diagnosed or treated, particularly in areas where advanced medical care is not available.

Question: How many people are affected by MECP2 duplication syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of MECP2 duplication syndrome is unknown; approximately 120 affected individuals have been reported in the scientific literature. It is estimated that this condition is responsible for 1 to 2 percent of all cases of intellectual disability caused by changes in the X chromosome.

Question: How many people are affected by paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria ?
Answer: Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria is a rare disorder, estimated to affect between 1 and 5 per million people.

Question: How many people are affected by glycine encephalopathy ?
Answer: The worldwide incidence of glycine encephalopathy is unknown. Its frequency has been studied in only a few regions: this condition affects about 1 in 55,000 newborns in Finland and about 1 in 63,000 newborns in British Columbia, Canada.

Question: How many people are affected by spinocerebellar ataxia type 6 ?
Answer: The worldwide prevalence of SCA6 is estimated to be less than 1 in 100,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by LAMA2-related muscular dystrophy ?
Answer: The prevalence of early-onset LAMA2-related muscular dystrophy is estimated at 1 in 30,000 individuals. This condition accounts for between 30 and 40 percent of total cases of congenital muscular dystrophy, although its contribution may be higher or lower than this range in specific populations. Late-onset LAMA2-related muscular dystrophy is rare; its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by mandibulofacial dysostosis with microcephaly ?
Answer: MFDM is a rare disorder; its exact prevalence is unknown. More than 60 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Guillain-Barr syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Guillain-Barr syndrome is estimated to be 6 to 40 cases per 1 million people. The occurrence of the different types of Guillain-Barr syndrome varies across regions. AIDP is the most common type in North America and Europe, accounting for approximately 90 percent of cases of Guillain-Barr syndrome in those regions. AMAN and AMSAN together account for 30 to 50 percent of cases in Asian countries and Latin America but only 3 to 5 percent of cases in North America and Europe. Miller Fisher syndrome is also more common in Asian countries, accounting for approximately 20 percent of cases in these countries but less than 5 percent in North America and Europe.

Question: How many people are affected by cystic fibrosis ?
Answer: Cystic fibrosis is a common genetic disease within the white population in the United States. The disease occurs in 1 in 2,500 to 3,500 white newborns. Cystic fibrosis is less common in other ethnic groups, affecting about 1 in 17,000 African Americans and 1 in 31,000 Asian Americans.

Question: How many people are affected by juvenile polyposis syndrome ?
Answer: Juvenile polyposis syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 100,000 individuals worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by 22q11.2 duplication ?
Answer: The prevalence of the 22q11.2 duplication in the general population is difficult to determine. Because many individuals with this duplication have no associated symptoms, their duplication may never be detected.  Most people tested for the 22q11.2 duplication have come to medical attention as a result of developmental delay or other problems affecting themselves or a family member. In one study, about 1 in 700 people tested for these reasons had the 22q11.2 duplication. Overall, more than 60 individuals with the duplication have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by Barth syndrome ?
Answer: Barth syndrome is estimated to affect 1 in 300,000 to 400,000 individuals worldwide. More than 150 cases have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Moebius syndrome ?
Answer: The exact incidence of Moebius syndrome is unknown. Researchers estimate that the condition affects 1 in 50,000 to 1 in 500,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by adult-onset leukoencephalopathy with axonal spheroids and pigmented glia ?
Answer: ALSP is thought to be a rare disorder, although the prevalence is unknown. Because it can be mistaken for other disorders with similar symptoms, ALSP may be underdiagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by Y chromosome infertility ?
Answer: Y chromosome infertility occurs in approximately 1 in 2,000 to 1 in 3,000 males of all ethnic groups. This condition accounts for between 5 percent and 10 percent of cases of azoospermia or severe oligospermia.

Question: How many people are affected by Larsen syndrome ?
Answer: Larsen syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 100,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by hyperprolinemia ?
Answer: It is difficult to determine the prevalence of hyperprolinemia type I because most people with the condition do not have any symptoms. Hyperprolinemia type II is a rare condition; its prevalence is also unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by atelosteogenesis type 1 ?
Answer: Atelosteogenesis type 1 is a rare disorder; its exact prevalence is unknown. Only a few dozen affected individuals have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome is estimated to be 1 in 50,000 births. However, this may be an underestimate because it is likely that some affected individuals are never diagnosed.  For unknown reasons, Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome occurs in about twice as many females as males.

Question: How many people are affected by Sandhoff disease ?
Answer: Sandhoff disease is a rare disorder; its frequency varies among populations. This condition appears to be more common in the Creole population of northern Argentina; the Metis Indians in Saskatchewan, Canada; and people from Lebanon.

Question: How many people are affected by alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase deficiency ?
Answer: AMACR deficiency is a rare disorder. Its prevalence is unknown. At least 10 cases have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary hyperekplexia ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of hereditary hyperekplexia is unknown. This condition has been identified in more than 70 families worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by MECP2-related severe neonatal encephalopathy ?
Answer: MECP2-related severe neonatal encephalopathy is likely a rare condition. Twenty to 30 affected males have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Andermann syndrome ?
Answer: Andermann syndrome is most often seen in the French-Canadian population of the Saguenay-Lac-St.-Jean and Charlevoix regions of northeastern Quebec. In this population, Andermann syndrome occurs in almost 1 in 2,000 newborns. Only a few individuals with this disorder have been identified in other regions of the world.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital myasthenic syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of congenital myasthenic syndrome is unknown. At least 600 families with affected individuals have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by cherubism ?
Answer: The incidence of cherubism is unknown. At least 250 cases have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Alport syndrome ?
Answer: Alport syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 50,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by branchiootorenal/branchiootic syndrome ?
Answer: Researchers estimate that BOR/BO syndrome affects about 1 in 40,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by deafness-dystonia-optic neuronopathy syndrome ?
Answer: DDON syndrome is a rare disorder; it has been reported in fewer than 70 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Milroy disease ?
Answer: Milroy disease is a rare disorder; its incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by frontonasal dysplasia ?
Answer: Frontonasal dysplasia is likely a rare condition; at least 100 cases have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by FOXG1 syndrome ?
Answer: FOXG1 syndrome appears to be rare. At least 30 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome is unknown. Approximately 200 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by juvenile idiopathic arthritis ?
Answer: The incidence of juvenile idiopathic arthritis in North America and Europe is estimated to be 4 to 16 in 10,000 children. One in 1,000, or approximately 294,000, children in the United States are affected. The most common type of juvenile idiopathic arthritis in the United States is oligoarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis, which accounts for about half of all cases. For reasons that are unclear, females seem to be affected with juvenile idiopathic arthritis somewhat more frequently than males. However, in enthesitis-related juvenile idiopathic arthritis males are affected more often than females. The incidence of juvenile idiopathic arthritis varies across different populations and ethnic groups.

Question: How many people are affected by sudden infant death with dysgenesis of the testes syndrome ?
Answer: SIDDT has been diagnosed in more than 20 infants from a single Old Order Amish community in Pennsylvania. The condition has not been reported outside this community.

Question: How many people are affected by cystinuria ?
Answer: Cystinuria affects approximately 1 in 10,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by hyperferritinemia-cataract syndrome ?
Answer: Hyperferritinemia-cataract syndrome has been estimated to occur in 1 in 200,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy ?
Answer: CADASIL is likely a rare condition; however, its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by junctional epidermolysis bullosa ?
Answer: Both types of junctional epidermolysis bullosa are rare, affecting fewer than 1 per million people in the United States.

Question: How many people are affected by Langerhans cell histiocytosis ?
Answer: Langerhans cell histiocytosis is a rare disorder. Its prevalence is estimated at 1 to 2 in 100,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by childhood myocerebrohepatopathy spectrum ?
Answer: The prevalence of childhood myocerebrohepatopathy spectrum is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Crouzon syndrome ?
Answer: Crouzon syndrome is seen in about 16 per million newborns. It is the most common craniosynostosis syndrome.

Question: How many people are affected by phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: This condition is likely a rare disorder, but its prevalence is unknown. At least 15 cases have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Hajdu-Cheney syndrome ?
Answer: Hajdu-Cheney syndrome is a rare disease; its prevalence is unknown. Fewer than 100 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by molybdenum cofactor deficiency ?
Answer: Molybdenum cofactor deficiency is a rare condition that is estimated to occur in 1 in 100,000 to 200,000 newborns worldwide. More than 100 cases have been reported in the medical literature, although it is thought that the condition is underdiagnosed, so the number of affected individuals may be higher.

Question: How many people are affected by focal dermal hypoplasia ?
Answer: Focal dermal hypoplasia appears to be a rare condition, although its exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by limb-girdle muscular dystrophy ?
Answer: It is difficult to determine the prevalence of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy because its features vary and overlap with those of other muscle disorders. Prevalence estimates range from 1 in 14,500 to 1 in 123,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by Pitt-Hopkins syndrome ?
Answer: Pitt-Hopkins syndrome is thought to be a very rare condition. Approximately 500 affected individuals have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by CHOPS syndrome ?
Answer: CHOPS syndrome is a rare disorder whose prevalence is unknown. Only a few affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Netherton syndrome ?
Answer: Netherton syndrome is estimated to affect 1 in 200,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by Kabuki syndrome ?
Answer: Kabuki syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 32,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by pyruvate kinase deficiency ?
Answer: Pyruvate kinase deficiency is the most common inherited cause of nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia. More than 500 affected families have been identified, and studies suggest that the disorder may be underdiagnosed because mild cases may not be identified.  Pyruvate kinase deficiency is found in all ethnic groups. Its prevalence has been estimated at 1 in 20,000 people of European descent. It is more common in the Old Order Amish population of Pennsylvania.

Question: How many people are affected by PMM2-congenital disorder of glycosylation ?
Answer: More than 800 individuals with PMM2-CDG have been identified worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by trisomy 13 ?
Answer: Trisomy 13 occurs in about 1 in 16,000 newborns. Although women of any age can have a child with trisomy 13, the chance of having a child with this condition increases as a woman gets older.

Question: How many people are affected by autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia type 1 ?
Answer: More than 100 people have been diagnosed with ARCA1. This condition was first discovered in individuals from the Beauce and Bas-Saint-Laurent regions of Quebec, Canada, but it has since been found in populations worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Chediak-Higashi syndrome ?
Answer: Chediak-Higashi syndrome is a rare disorder. About 200 cases of the condition have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Bartter syndrome ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of this disorder is unknown, although it likely affects about 1 per million people worldwide. The condition appears to be more common in Costa Rica and Kuwait than in other populations.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital plasminogen deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of congenital plasminogen deficiency has been estimated at 1.6 per one million people. This condition is believed to be underdiagnosed, because growths in one area are often not recognized as being a feature of a disorder that affects many body systems. Mild cases likely never come to medical attention.

Question: How many people are affected by intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy ?
Answer: Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy is estimated to affect 1 percent of women of Northern European ancestry. The condition is more common in certain populations, such as women of Araucanian Indian ancestry in Chile or women of Scandinavian ancestry. This condition is found less frequently in other populations.

Question: How many people are affected by methemoglobinemia, beta-globin type ?
Answer: The incidence of methemoglobinemia, beta-globin type is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by glucose-galactose malabsorption ?
Answer: Glucose-galactose malabsorption is a rare disorder; only a few hundred cases have been identified worldwide. However, as many as 10 percent of the population may have a somewhat reduced capacity for glucose absorption without associated health problems. This condition may be a milder variation of glucose-galactose malabsorption.

Question: How many people are affected by fibronectin glomerulopathy ?
Answer: Fibronectin glomerulopathy is likely a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown. At least 45 cases have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome ?
Answer: Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome is estimated to affect at least 1 in 100,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Aarskog-Scott syndrome ?
Answer: Aarskog-Scott syndrome is believed to be a rare disorder; however, its prevalence is unknown because mildly affected people are often not diagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by fibrochondrogenesis ?
Answer: Fibrochondrogenesis appears to be a rare disorder. About 20 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital hyperinsulinism ?
Answer: Congenital hyperinsulinism affects approximately 1 in 50,000 newborns. This condition is more common in certain populations, affecting up to 1 in 2,500 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by Floating-Harbor syndrome ?
Answer: Floating-Harbor syndrome is a rare disorder; only about 50 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by dilated cardiomyopathy with ataxia syndrome ?
Answer: DCMA syndrome is a very rare disorder. Approximately 30 cases have been identified in the Dariusleut Hutterite population of the Great Plains region of Canada. Only a few affected individuals have been identified outside this population.

Question: How many people are affected by Sjgren syndrome ?
Answer: Sjgren syndrome is a relatively common disorder; it occurs in 0.1 to 4 percent of the population. It is difficult to determine the exact prevalence because the characteristic features of this disorder, dry eyes and dry mouth, can also be caused by many other conditions. Women develop Sjgren syndrome about 10 times more often than men; the specific reason for this difference is unknown but likely involves the effects of sex hormones on immune system function.

Question: How many people are affected by spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 ?
Answer: SCA1 affects 1 to 2 per 100,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by MEGDEL syndrome ?
Answer: MEGDEL syndrome is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. At least 40 affected individuals have been mentioned in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by spinal muscular atrophy with progressive myoclonic epilepsy ?
Answer: SMA-PME is a rare disorder; approximately a dozen affected families have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Coats plus syndrome ?
Answer: Coats plus syndrome appears to be a rare disorder. Its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by retinoblastoma ?
Answer: Retinoblastoma is diagnosed in 250 to 350 children per year in the United States. It accounts for about 4 percent of all cancers in children younger than 15 years.

Question: How many people are affected by Donohue syndrome ?
Answer: Donohue syndrome is estimated to affect less than 1 per million people worldwide. Several dozen cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by amelogenesis imperfecta ?
Answer: The exact incidence of amelogenesis imperfecta is uncertain. Estimates vary widely, from 1 in 700 people in northern Sweden to 1 in 14,000 people in the United States.

Question: How many people are affected by Roberts syndrome ?
Answer: Roberts syndrome is a rare disorder; approximately 150 affected individuals have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by familial paroxysmal nonkinesigenic dyskinesia ?
Answer: Familial paroxysmal nonkinesigenic dyskinesia is a very rare disorder. Its prevalence is estimated to be 1 in 5 million people.

Question: How many people are affected by Wolfram syndrome ?
Answer: The estimated prevalence of Wolfram syndrome type 1 is 1 in 500,000 people worldwide. Approximately 200 cases have been described in the scientific literature. Only a few families from Jordan have been found to have Wolfram syndrome type 2.

Question: How many people are affected by preeclampsia ?
Answer: Preeclampsia is a common condition in all populations, occurring in 2 to 8 percent of pregnancies. It occurs more frequently in women of African or Hispanic descent than it does in women of European descent.

Question: How many people are affected by Ollier disease ?
Answer: Ollier disease is estimated to occur in 1 in 100,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by autosomal recessive hypotrichosis ?
Answer: The worldwide prevalence of autosomal recessive hypotrichosis is unknown. In Japan, the condition is estimated to affect 1 in 10,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by Liddle syndrome ?
Answer: Liddle syndrome is a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown. The condition has been found in populations worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by familial male-limited precocious puberty ?
Answer: Familial male-limited precocious puberty is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration ?
Answer: The precise incidence of this condition is unknown. It is estimated to affect 1 to 3 per million people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by xeroderma pigmentosum ?
Answer: Xeroderma pigmentosum is a rare disorder; it is estimated to affect about 1 in 1 million people in the United States and Europe. The condition is more common in Japan, North Africa, and the Middle East.

Question: How many people are affected by transthyretin amyloidosis ?
Answer: The exact incidence of transthyretin amyloidosis is unknown. In northern Portugal, the incidence of this condition is thought to be one in 538 people. Transthyretin amyloidosis is less common among Americans of European descent, where it is estimated to affect one in 100,000 people. The cardiac form of transthyretin amyloidosis is more common among people with African ancestry. It is estimated that this form affects between 3 percent and 3.9 percent of African Americans and approximately 5 percent of people in some areas of West Africa.

Question: How many people are affected by enlarged parietal foramina ?
Answer: The prevalence of enlarged parietal foramina is estimated to be 1 in 15,000 to 50,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by benign essential blepharospasm ?
Answer: Benign essential blepharospasm affects an estimated 20,000 to 50,000 people in the United States. For unknown reasons, it occurs in women more than twice as often as it occurs in men.

Question: How many people are affected by tyrosinemia ?
Answer: Worldwide, tyrosinemia type I affects about 1 in 100,000 individuals. This type is more common in Norway where 1 in 60,000 to 74,000 individuals are affected. Tyrosinemia type I is even more common in Quebec, Canada where it occurs in about 1 in 16,000 individuals. In the Saguenay-Lac St. Jean region of Quebec, tyrosinemia type I affects 1 in 1,846 people.  Tyrosinemia type II occurs in fewer than 1 in 250,000 individuals worldwide. Tyrosinemia type III is very rare; only a few cases have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by Muckle-Wells syndrome ?
Answer: Muckle-Wells syndrome is a rare disorder. It has been reported in many regions of the world, but its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by 3MC syndrome ?
Answer: 3MC syndrome is a rare disorder; its exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by tyrosine hydroxylase deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of TH deficiency is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Treacher Collins syndrome ?
Answer: This condition affects an estimated 1 in 50,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by Fabry disease ?
Answer: Fabry disease affects an estimated 1 in 40,000 to 60,000 males. This disorder also occurs in females, although the prevalence is unknown. Milder, late-onset forms of the disorder are probably more common than the classic, severe form.

Question: How many people are affected by warfarin sensitivity ?
Answer: The prevalence of warfarin sensitivity is unknown. However, it appears to be more common in people who are older, those with lower body weights, and individuals of Asian ancestry.  Of the approximately 2 million people in the U.S. who are prescribed warfarin annually, 35,000 to 45,000 individuals go to hospital emergency rooms with warfarin-related adverse drug events. While it is unclear how many of these events are due to warfarin sensitivity, the most common sign is excessive internal bleeding, which is often seen when individuals with warfarin sensitivity are given too much of the medication.

Question: How many people are affected by Apert syndrome ?
Answer: Apert syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 65,000 to 88,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by microphthalmia ?
Answer: Microphthalmia occurs in approximately 1 in 10,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by STING-associated vasculopathy with onset in infancy ?
Answer: The prevalence of this condition is unknown. Only a few affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency ?
Answer: Ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency is believed to occur in approximately 1 in every 80,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by autosomal recessive congenital stationary night blindness ?
Answer: Autosomal recessive congenital stationary night blindness is likely a rare disease; however, its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by primary ciliary dyskinesia ?
Answer: Primary ciliary dyskinesia occurs in approximately 1 in 16,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by maple syrup urine disease ?
Answer: Maple syrup urine disease affects an estimated 1 in 185,000 infants worldwide. The disorder occurs much more frequently in the Old Order Mennonite population, with an estimated incidence of about 1 in 380 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by short stature, hyperextensibility, hernia, ocular depression, Rieger anomaly, and teething delay ?
Answer: SHORT syndrome is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown. Only a few affected individuals and families have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome ?
Answer: Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome appears to be rare and has been described only in the Japanese population. About 30 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by hypermanganesemia with dystonia, polycythemia, and cirrhosis ?
Answer: The prevalence of HMDPC is unknown. A small number of cases have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by gyrate atrophy of the choroid and retina ?
Answer: More than 150 individuals with gyrate atrophy have been identified; approximately one third are from Finland.

Question: How many people are affected by bladder cancer ?
Answer: In the United States, bladder cancer is the fourth most common type of cancer in men and the ninth most common cancer in women. About 45,000 men and 17,000 women are diagnosed with bladder cancer each year.

Question: How many people are affected by carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency ?
Answer: CACT deficiency is very rare; at least 30 cases have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by sitosterolemia ?
Answer: Only 80 to 100 individuals with sitosterolemia have been described in the medical literature. However, researchers believe that this condition is likely underdiagnosed because mild cases often do not come to medical attention. Studies suggest that the prevalence may be at least 1 in 50,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by blepharophimosis, ptosis, and epicanthus inversus syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of BPES is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated periodic syndrome ?
Answer: TRAPS has an estimated prevalence of one per million individuals; it is the second most common inherited recurrent fever syndrome, following a similar condition called familial Mediterranean fever. More than 1,000 people worldwide have been diagnosed with TRAPS.

Question: How many people are affected by Kawasaki disease ?
Answer: In the United States and other Western countries, Kawasaki disease occurs in approximately 1 in 10,000 children under 5 each year. The condition is 10 to 20 times more common in East Asia, including Japan, Korea, and Taiwan.

Question: How many people are affected by familial Mediterranean fever ?
Answer: Familial Mediterranean fever primarily affects populations originating in the Mediterranean region, particularly people of Armenian, Arab, Turkish, or Jewish ancestry. The disorder affects 1 in 200 to 1,000 people in these populations. It is less common in other populations.

Question: How many people are affected by ataxia with vitamin E deficiency ?
Answer: Ataxia with vitamin E deficiency is a rare condition; however, its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by achromatopsia ?
Answer: Achromatopsia affects an estimated 1 in 30,000 people worldwide. Complete achromatopsia is more common than incomplete achromatopsia.  Complete achromatopsia occurs frequently among Pingelapese islanders, who live on one of the Eastern Caroline Islands of Micronesia. Between 4 and 10 percent of people in this population have a total absence of color vision.

Question: How many people are affected by epidermolysis bullosa with pyloric atresia ?
Answer: EB-PA appears to be a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown. At least 50 affected individuals have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Warsaw breakage syndrome ?
Answer: Warsaw breakage syndrome is a rare condition; at least four cases have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Carpenter syndrome ?
Answer: Carpenter syndrome is thought to be a rare condition; approximately 70 cases have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Potocki-Shaffer syndrome ?
Answer: Potocki-Shaffer syndrome is a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown. Fewer than 100 cases have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by osteogenesis imperfecta ?
Answer: This condition affects an estimated 6 to 7 per 100,000 people worldwide. Types I and IV are the most common forms of osteogenesis imperfecta, affecting 4 to 5 per 100,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by lung cancer ?
Answer: In the United States, it is estimated that more than 221,000 people develop lung cancer each year. An estimated 72 to 80 percent of lung cancer cases occur in tobacco smokers.  Approximately 6.6 percent of individuals will develop lung cancer during their lifetime. It is the leading cause of cancer deaths, accounting for an estimated 27 percent of all cancer deaths in the United States.

Question: How many people are affected by cerebral autosomal recessive arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy ?
Answer: CARASIL appears to be a rare condition. It has been identified in about 50 people, primarily in Japan and China.

Question: How many people are affected by galactosialidosis ?
Answer: The prevalence of galactosialidosis is unknown; more than 100 cases have been reported. Approximately 60 percent of people with galactosialidosis have the juvenile/adult form. Most people with this type of the condition are of Japanese descent.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type IE ?
Answer: HSAN IE is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. Small numbers of affected families have been identified in populations around the world.

Question: How many people are affected by CAV3-related distal myopathy ?
Answer: The prevalence of CAV3-related distal myopathy is unknown. Only a few affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by galactosemia ?
Answer: Classic galactosemia occurs in 1 in 30,000 to 60,000 newborns. Galactosemia type II and type III are less common; type II probably affects fewer than 1 in 100,000 newborns and type III appears to be very rare.

Question: How many people are affected by Erdheim-Chester disease ?
Answer: Erdheim-Chester disease is a rare disorder; its exact prevalence is unknown. More than 500 affected individuals worldwide have been described in the medical literature. For unknown reasons, men are slightly more likely to develop the disease, accounting for about 60 percent of cases.

Question: How many people are affected by Ohdo syndrome, Maat-Kievit-Brunner type ?
Answer: The Maat-Kievit-Brunner type of Ohdo syndrome is a very rare condition, with only a few affected individuals reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Huntington disease-like syndrome ?
Answer: Overall, HDL syndromes are rare. They are much less common than Huntington disease, which affects an estimated 3 to 7 per 100,000 people of European ancestry.  Of the four described HDL syndromes, HDL4 appears to be the most common. HDL2 is the second most common and occurs almost exclusively in people of African heritage (especially black South Africans). HDL1 has been reported in only one family. HDL3 has been found in two families, both of which were from Saudi Arabia.

Question: How many people are affected by lymphangioleiomyomatosis ?
Answer: Sporadic LAM is estimated to occur in 2 to 5 per million women worldwide. This condition may be underdiagnosed because its symptoms are similar to those of other lung disorders such as asthma, bronchitis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Question: How many people are affected by VACTERL association ?
Answer: VACTERL association occurs in 1 in 10,000 to 40,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by age-related macular degeneration ?
Answer: Age-related macular degeneration has an estimated prevalence of 1 in 2,000 people in the United States and other developed countries. The condition currently affects several million Americans, and the prevalence is expected to increase over the coming decades as the proportion of older people in the population increases.  For reasons that are unclear, age-related macular degeneration affects individuals of European descent more frequently than African Americans in the United States.

Question: How many people are affected by propionic acidemia ?
Answer: Propionic acidemia affects about 1 in 100,000 people in the United States. The condition appears to be more common in several populations worldwide, including the Inuit population of Greenland, some Amish communities, and Saudi Arabians.

Question: How many people are affected by early-onset primary dystonia ?
Answer: Early-onset primary dystonia is among the most common forms of childhood dystonia. This disorder occurs most frequently in people of Ashkenazi (central and eastern European) Jewish heritage, affecting 1 in 3,000 to 9,000 people in this population. The condition is less common among people with other backgrounds; it is estimated to affect 1 in 10,000 to 30,000 non-Jewish people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by epidermolysis bullosa simplex ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of epidermolysis bullosa simplex is unknown, but this condition is estimated to affect 1 in 30,000 to 50,000 people. The localized type is the most common form of the condition.

Question: How many people are affected by fatty acid hydroxylase-associated neurodegeneration ?
Answer: FAHN is a rare disorder; only a few dozen cases have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by ulcerative colitis ?
Answer: Ulcerative colitis is most common in North America and Western Europe; however the prevalence is increasing in other regions. In North America, ulcerative colitis affects approximately 40 to 240 in 100,000 people. It is estimated that more than 750,000 North Americans are affected by this disorder. Ulcerative colitis is more common in whites and people of eastern and central European (Ashkenazi) Jewish descent than among people of other ethnic backgrounds.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary pancreatitis ?
Answer: Hereditary pancreatitis is thought to be a rare condition. In Europe, its prevalence is estimated to be 3 to 6 per million individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency ?
Answer: Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency occurs worldwide, but its prevalence varies by population. This disorder affects about 1 in 1,500 to 3,500 individuals with European ancestry. It is uncommon in people of Asian descent. Many individuals with alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency are likely undiagnosed, particularly people with a lung condition called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). COPD can be caused by alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency; however, the alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency is often never diagnosed. Some people with alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency are misdiagnosed with asthma.

Question: How many people are affected by spastic paraplegia type 4 ?
Answer: The prevalence of spastic paraplegia type 4 is estimated to be 2 to 6 in 100,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Marinesco-Sjgren syndrome ?
Answer: Marinesco-Sjgren syndrome appears to be a rare condition. More than 100 cases have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita ?
Answer: X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita is estimated to affect 1 in 12,500 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by prothrombin deficiency ?
Answer: Prothrombin deficiency is very rare; it is estimated to affect 1 in 2 million people in the general population.

Question: How many people are affected by mucopolysaccharidosis type IV ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of MPS IV is unknown, although it is estimated to occur in 1 in 200,000 to 300,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by otopalatodigital syndrome type 2 ?
Answer: Otopalatodigital syndrome type 2 is a rare disorder, affecting fewer than 1 in every 100,000 individuals. Its specific incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by sialic acid storage disease ?
Answer: Sialic acid storage disease is a very rare disorder. ISSD has been identified in only a few dozen infants worldwide. Salla disease occurs mainly in Finland and Sweden and has been reported in approximately 150 people. A few individuals have been identified as having intermediate severe Salla disease.

Question: How many people are affected by familial dilated cardiomyopathy ?
Answer: It is estimated that 750,000 people in the United States have dilated cardiomyopathy; roughly half of these cases are familial.

Question: How many people are affected by retinal arterial macroaneurysm with supravalvular pulmonic stenosis ?
Answer: RAMSVPS is a rare disorder. Only a small number of affected individuals and families, all from Saudi Arabia, have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by oral-facial-digital syndrome ?
Answer: Oral-facial-digital syndrome has an estimated incidence of 1 in 50,000 to 250,000 newborns. Type I accounts for the majority of cases of this disorder. The other forms of oral-facial-digital syndrome are very rare; most have been identified in only one or a few families.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital hemidysplasia with ichthyosiform erythroderma and limb defects ?
Answer: CHILD syndrome is a rare disorder; it has been reported in about 60 people worldwide. This condition occurs almost exclusively in females.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia ?
Answer: The incidence of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia is difficult to determine because the severity of symptoms can vary widely and some symptoms, such as frequent nosebleeds, are common in the general population. In addition, arteriovenous malformations may be associated with other medical conditions. Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia is widely distributed, occurring in many ethnic groups around the world. It is believed to affect between 1 in 5,000 and 1 in 10,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by mitochondrial membrane protein-associated neurodegeneration ?
Answer: MPAN is a rare condition that is estimated to affect less than 1 in 1 million people.

Question: How many people are affected by T-cell immunodeficiency, congenital alopecia, and nail dystrophy ?
Answer: T-cell immunodeficiency, congenital alopecia, and nail dystrophy is a rare disorder. It has been diagnosed in only a few individuals, almost all of whom are members of a large extended family from a community in southern Italy.

Question: How many people are affected by Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome is approximately 1 in 100,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked sideroblastic anemia and ataxia ?
Answer: X-linked sideroblastic anemia and ataxia is a rare disorder; only a few affected families have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by pulmonary arterial hypertension ?
Answer: In the United States, about 1,000 new cases of pulmonary arterial hypertension are diagnosed each year. This disorder is twice as common in females as in males.

Question: How many people are affected by systemic scleroderma ?
Answer: The prevalence of systemic scleroderma is estimated to range from 50 to 300 cases per 1 million people. For reasons that are unknown, women are four times more likely to develop the condition than men.

Question: How many people are affected by Denys-Drash syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Denys-Drash syndrome is unknown; at least 150 affected individuals have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital insensitivity to pain ?
Answer: Congenital insensitivity to pain is a rare condition; about 20 cases have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes ?
Answer: The exact incidence of MELAS is unknown. It is one of the more common conditions in a group known as mitochondrial diseases. Together, mitochondrial diseases occur in about 1 in 4,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by TK2-related mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome, myopathic form ?
Answer: The prevalence of TK2-MDS is unknown. Approximately 45 cases have been described.

Question: How many people are affected by Brooke-Spiegler syndrome ?
Answer: Brooke-Spiegler syndrome is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by late-infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis ?
Answer: The prevalence of late-infantile NCL is unknown. Collectively, all forms of NCL affect an estimated 1 in 100,000 individuals worldwide. NCLs are more common in Finland, where approximately 1 in 12,500 individuals are affected.

Question: How many people are affected by ataxia neuropathy spectrum ?
Answer: The prevalence of ataxia neuropathy spectrum is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by pilomatricoma ?
Answer: Pilomatricoma is an uncommon tumor. The exact prevalence is unknown, but pilomatricoma probably accounts for less than 1 percent of all benign skin tumors.

Question: How many people are affected by Tietz syndrome ?
Answer: Tietz syndrome is a rare disorder; its exact prevalence is unknown. Only a few affected families have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Alexander disease ?
Answer: The prevalence of Alexander disease is unknown. About 500 cases have been reported since the disorder was first described in 1949.

Question: How many people are affected by Turner syndrome ?
Answer: This condition occurs in about 1 in 2,500 newborn girls worldwide, but it is much more common among pregnancies that do not survive to term (miscarriages and stillbirths).

Question: How many people are affected by auriculo-condylar syndrome ?
Answer: Auriculo-condylar syndrome appears to be a rare disorder. More than two dozen affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by cold-induced sweating syndrome ?
Answer: Cold-induced sweating syndrome is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown. The condition was first identified in the Sardinian population, but it has since been reported in regions worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Chanarin-Dorfman syndrome ?
Answer: Chanarin-Dorfman syndrome is a rare condition; its incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by mitochondrial complex III deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of mitochondrial complex III deficiency is unknown, although the condition is thought to be rare.

Question: How many people are affected by malignant migrating partial seizures of infancy ?
Answer: MMPSI is a rare condition. Although its prevalence is unknown, approximately 100 cases have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Lujan syndrome ?
Answer: Lujan syndrome appears to be an uncommon condition, but its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by systemic lupus erythematosus ?
Answer: For unknown reasons, in industrialized Western countries SLE has become 10 times more common over the past 50 years. While estimates of its prevalence vary, SLE is believed to affect 14.6 to 68 per 100,000 people in the United States, with females developing SLE more often than males. It is most common in younger women; however, 20 percent of SLE cases occur in people over age 50. Because many of the signs and symptoms of SLE resemble those of other disorders, diagnosis may be delayed for years, and the condition may never be diagnosed in some affected individuals.  In industrialized Western countries, people of African and Asian descent are two to four times more likely to develop SLE than are people of European descent. However, while the prevalence of SLE in Africa and Asia is unknown, it is believed to be much lower than in Western nations. Researchers suggest that factors such as ethnic mixing, tobacco use in industrialized countries, and the different types of infections people acquire in different regions may help account for the discrepancy. For example malaria, which occurs often in tropical regions, is thought to be protective against SLE, while the Epstein-Barr virus, more common in the West, increases SLE risk.

Question: How many people are affected by SADDAN ?
Answer: This disorder is very rare; it has been described in only a small number of individuals worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by familial cold autoinflammatory syndrome ?
Answer: Familial cold autoinflammatory syndrome is a very rare condition, believed to have a prevalence of less than 1 per million people.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital hypothyroidism ?
Answer: Congenital hypothyroidism affects an estimated 1 in 2,000 to 4,000 newborns. For reasons that remain unclear, congenital hypothyroidism affects more than twice as many females as males.

Question: How many people are affected by Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome ?
Answer: This condition is uncommon; it occurs in an estimated 1 in 100,000 to 125,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by surfactant dysfunction ?
Answer: One type of surfactant dysfunction, SP-B deficiency, is estimated to occur in 1 in 1 million newborns worldwide. The prevalence of surfactant dysfunction due to other causes is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent epilepsy ?
Answer: Pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent epilepsy is a rare condition; approximately 14 cases have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Andersen-Tawil syndrome ?
Answer: Andersen-Tawil syndrome is a rare genetic disorder; its incidence is unknown. About 100 people with this condition have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Manitoba oculotrichoanal syndrome ?
Answer: Manitoba oculotrichoanal syndrome is estimated to occur in 2 to 6 in 1,000 people in a small isolated Ojibway-Cree community in northern Manitoba, Canada. Although this region has the highest incidence of the condition, it has also been diagnosed in a few people from other parts of the world.

Question: How many people are affected by isolated ectopia lentis ?
Answer: The prevalence of isolated ectopia lentis is unknown. In Denmark, an estimated 6.4 per 100,000 individuals have ectopia lentis, but a large proportion of these cases (about 75 percent) are syndromic.

Question: How many people are affected by tuberous sclerosis complex ?
Answer: Tuberous sclerosis complex affects about 1 in 6,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by factor V Leiden thrombophilia ?
Answer: Factor V Leiden is the most common inherited form of thrombophilia. Between 3 and 8 percent of people with European ancestry carry one copy of the factor V Leiden mutation in each cell, and about 1 in 5,000 people have two copies of the mutation. The mutation is less common in other populations.

Question: How many people are affected by chronic granulomatous disease ?
Answer: Chronic granulomatous disease is estimated to occur in 1 in 200,000 to 250,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by osteoporosis-pseudoglioma syndrome ?
Answer: Osteoporosis-pseudoglioma syndrome is a rare disorder that occurs in approximately 1 in 2 million people.

Question: How many people are affected by 15q24 microdeletion ?
Answer: This condition is very rare; only a few dozen affected individuals have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by branchio-oculo-facial syndrome ?
Answer: Branchio-oculo-facial syndrome is a rare condition, although the prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Pallister-Hall syndrome ?
Answer: This condition is very rare; its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles ?
Answer: CFEOM1 is the most common form of congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles, affecting at least 1 in 230,000 people. CFEOM1 and CFEOM3 have been reported worldwide, whereas CFEOM2 has been seen in only a few families of Turkish, Saudi Arabian, and Iranian descent. Tukel syndrome appears to be very rare; it has been diagnosed in only one large Turkish family.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism ?
Answer: X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism has been reported in more than 500 people of Filipino descent, although it is likely that many more Filipinos are affected. Most people with this condition can trace their mother's ancestry to the island of Panay in the Philippines. The prevalence of the disorder is 5.24 per 100,000 people on the island of Panay.

Question: How many people are affected by osteopetrosis ?
Answer: Autosomal dominant osteopetrosis is the most common form of the disorder, affecting about 1 in 20,000 people. Autosomal recessive osteopetrosis is rarer, occurring in an estimated 1 in 250,000 people.  Other forms of osteopetrosis are very rare. Only a few cases of intermediate autosomal osteopetrosis and OL-EDA-ID have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by 21-hydroxylase deficiency ?
Answer: The classic forms of 21-hydroxylase deficiency occur in 1 in 15,000 newborns. The prevalence of the non-classic form of 21-hydroxylase deficiency is estimated to be 1 in 1,000 individuals. The prevalence of both classic and non-classic forms varies among different ethnic populations.  21-hydroxylase deficiency is one of a group of disorders known as congenital adrenal hyperplasias that impair hormone production and disrupt sexual development. 21-hydroxylase deficiency is responsible for about 95 percent of all cases of congenital adrenal hyperplasia.

Question: How many people are affected by multiple system atrophy ?
Answer: Multiple system atrophy has a prevalence of about 2 to 5 per 100,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by complement component 2 deficiency ?
Answer: In Western countries, complement component 2 deficiency is estimated to affect 1 in 20,000 individuals; its prevalence in other areas of the world is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Darier disease ?
Answer: The worldwide prevalence of Darier disease is unknown. The prevalence of Darier disease is estimated to be 1 in 30,000 people in Scotland, 1 in 36,000 people in northern England, and 1 in 100,000 people in Denmark.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary myopathy with early respiratory failure ?
Answer: HMERF is a rare condition. It has been reported in several families of Swedish and French descent, and in at least one individual from Italy.

Question: How many people are affected by cyclic vomiting syndrome ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of cyclic vomiting syndrome is unknown; estimates range from 4 to 2,000 per 100,000 children. The condition is diagnosed less frequently in adults, although recent studies suggest that the condition may begin in adulthood as commonly as it begins in childhood.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital dyserythropoietic anemia ?
Answer: Several hundred cases of CDA have been reported worldwide. CDA type II is the most common form of the disorder, with more than 300 reported cases. CDA type III is the rarest form; it has been described in only a few families from Sweden, Argentina, and the United States. The incidence of CDA type I is unknown. Because CDA is so rare and its signs and symptoms overlap with those of other disorders, many cases likely remain undiagnosed or are incorrectly diagnosed as other disorders.

Question: How many people are affected by MyD88 deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of MyD88 deficiency is unknown. At least 24 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by metachromatic leukodystrophy ?
Answer: Metachromatic leukodystrophy is reported to occur in 1 in 40,000 to 160,000 individuals worldwide. The condition is more common in certain genetically isolated populations: 1 in 75 in a small group of Jews who immigrated to Israel from southern Arabia (Habbanites), 1 in 2,500 in the western portion of the Navajo Nation, and 1 in 8,000 among Arab groups in Israel.

Question: How many people are affected by Kleefstra syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Kleefstra syndrome is unknown. Only recently has testing become available to distinguish it from other disorders with similar features.

Question: How many people are affected by Weill-Marchesani syndrome ?
Answer: Weill-Marchesani syndrome appears to be rare; it has an estimated prevalence of 1 in 100,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by hypochondroplasia ?
Answer: The incidence of hypochondroplasia is unknown. Researchers believe that it may be about as common as achondroplasia, which occurs in 1 in 15,000 to 40,000 newborns. More than 200 people worldwide have been diagnosed with hypochondroplasia.

Question: How many people are affected by Noonan syndrome ?
Answer: Noonan syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 1,000 to 2,500 people.

Question: How many people are affected by cleidocranial dysplasia ?
Answer: Cleidocranial dysplasia occurs in approximately 1 per million individuals worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by fragile X-associated primary ovarian insufficiency ?
Answer: An estimated 1 in 200 females has the genetic change that leads to FXPOI, although only about a quarter of them develop the condition. FXPOI accounts for about 4 to 6 percent of all cases of primary ovarian insufficiency in women.

Question: How many people are affected by critical congenital heart disease ?
Answer: Heart defects are the most common type of birth defect, accounting for more than 30 percent of all infant deaths due to birth defects. CCHD represents some of the most serious types of heart defects. About 7,200 newborns, or 18 per 10,000, in the United States are diagnosed with CCHD each year.

Question: How many people are affected by glycogen storage disease type VII ?
Answer: GSDVII is thought to be a rare condition; more than 100 cases have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by mucopolysaccharidosis type VII ?
Answer: The exact incidence of MPS VII is unknown, although it is estimated to occur in 1 in 250,000 newborns. It is one of the rarest types of mucopolysaccharidosis.

Question: How many people are affected by task-specific focal dystonia ?
Answer: Task-specific focal dystonia affects an estimated 7 to 69 per million people in the general population. Musician's dystonia that is severe enough to impact performance occurs in about 1 percent of musicians.

Question: How many people are affected by carnitine palmitoyltransferase I deficiency ?
Answer: CPT I deficiency is a rare disorder; fewer than 50 affected individuals have been identified. This disorder may be more common in the Hutterite and Inuit populations.

Question: How many people are affected by protein C deficiency ?
Answer: Mild protein C deficiency affects approximately 1 in 500 individuals. Severe protein C deficiency is rare and occurs in an estimated 1 in 4 million newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata 1 ?
Answer: The prevalence of X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata 1 is unknown. Several dozen affected males have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by warfarin resistance ?
Answer: Warfarin resistance is thought to be a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Feingold syndrome ?
Answer: Feingold syndrome appears to be a rare condition, although its exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by hypercholesterolemia ?
Answer: More than 34 million American adults have elevated blood cholesterol levels (higher than 240 mg/dL). Inherited forms of hypercholesterolemia, which cause even higher levels of cholesterol, occur less frequently. The most common inherited form of high cholesterol is called familial hypercholesterolemia. This condition affects about 1 in 500 people in most countries. Familial hypercholesterolemia occurs more frequently in certain populations, including Afrikaners in South Africa, French Canadians, Lebanese, and Finns.

Question: How many people are affected by mucopolysaccharidosis type III ?
Answer: MPS III is the most common type of mucopolysaccharidosis; the estimated incidence of all four types combined is 1 in 70,000 newborns. MPS IIIA and MPS IIIB are much more common than MPS IIIC and MPS IIID.

Question: How many people are affected by GLUT1 deficiency syndrome ?
Answer: GLUT1 deficiency syndrome is a rare disorder. Approximately 500 cases have been reported worldwide since the disorder was first identified in 1991. In Australia, the prevalence of the disorder has been estimated at 1 in 90,000 people. However, researchers suggest that the disorder may be underdiagnosed, because many neurological disorders can cause similar symptoms.

Question: How many people are affected by Opitz G/BBB syndrome ?
Answer: X-linked Opitz G/BBB syndrome is thought to affect 1 in 10,000 to 50,000 males, although it is likely that this condition is underdiagnosed.  The incidence of autosomal dominant Opitz G/BBB syndrome is unknown. It is part of a larger condition known as 22q11.2 deletion syndrome, which is estimated to affect 1 in 4,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by Stickler syndrome ?
Answer: Stickler syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 7,500 to 9,000 newborns. Type I is the most common form of the condition.

Question: How many people are affected by mucolipidosis III alpha/beta ?
Answer: Mucolipidosis III alpha/beta is a rare disorder, although its exact prevalence is unknown. It is estimated to occur in about 1 in 100,000 to 400,000 individuals worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Hashimoto thyroiditis ?
Answer: Hashimoto thyroiditis affects 1 to 2 percent of people in the United States. It occurs more often in women than in men, which may be related to hormonal factors. The condition is the most common cause of thyroid underactivity (hypothyroidism) in the United States.

Question: How many people are affected by Cornelia de Lange syndrome ?
Answer: Although the exact incidence is unknown, Cornelia de Lange syndrome likely affects 1 in 10,000 to 30,000 newborns. The condition is probably underdiagnosed because affected individuals with mild or uncommon features may never be recognized as having Cornelia de Lange syndrome.

Question: How many people are affected by 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency is a rare disorder; its actual incidence is unknown. This disorder is more common, however, among Hmong populations in southeast Asia and in Hmong Americans. 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency occurs in 1 in 250 to 1 in 500 people of Hmong ancestry.

Question: How many people are affected by Kearns-Sayre syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Kearns-Sayre syndrome is approximately 1 to 3 per 100,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by megalencephaly-capillary malformation syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of MCAP is unknown. At least 150 affected individuals have been reported in the medical literature. Because the condition is often thought to be misdiagnosed or underdiagnosed, it may be more common than reported.

Question: How many people are affected by lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia ?
Answer: LCH is a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome ?
Answer: Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 20,000 to 60,000 newborns. This condition is most common in whites of European ancestry, particularly people from Central European countries such as Slovakia and the Czech Republic. It is very rare among African and Asian populations.

Question: How many people are affected by monilethrix ?
Answer: The prevalence of monilethrix is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Bloom syndrome ?
Answer: Bloom syndrome is a rare disorder. Only a few hundred affected individuals have been described in the medical literature, about one-third of whom are of Central and Eastern European (Ashkenazi) Jewish background.

Question: How many people are affected by myostatin-related muscle hypertrophy ?
Answer: The prevalence of this condition is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by autosomal dominant hyper-IgE syndrome ?
Answer: This condition is rare, affecting fewer than 1 per million people.

Question: How many people are affected by Cohen syndrome ?
Answer: The exact incidence of Cohen syndrome is unknown. It has been diagnosed in fewer than 1,000 people worldwide. More cases are likely undiagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by Leber hereditary optic neuropathy ?
Answer: The prevalence of LHON in most populations is unknown. It affects 1 in 30,000 to 50,000 people in northeast England and Finland.

Question: How many people are affected by nemaline myopathy ?
Answer: Nemaline myopathy has an estimated incidence of 1 in 50,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by Dubin-Johnson syndrome ?
Answer: Although Dubin-Johnson syndrome occurs in people of all ethnic backgrounds, it is more common among Iranian and Moroccan Jews living in Israel. Studies suggest that this disorder affects 1 in 1,300 Iranian Jews in Israel. Additionally, several people in the Japanese population have been diagnosed with Dubin-Johnson syndrome. This condition appears to be less common in other countries.

Question: How many people are affected by 46,XX testicular disorder of sex development ?
Answer: Approximately 1 in 20,000 individuals with a male appearance have 46,XX testicular disorder.

Question: How many people are affected by moyamoya disease ?
Answer: Moyamoya disease was first identified in Japan, where it is most prevalent, affecting about 5 in 100,000 individuals. The condition is also relatively common in other Asian populations. It is ten times less common in Europe. In the United States, Asian Americans are four times more commonly affected than whites. For unknown reasons, moyamoya disease occurs twice as often in females as in males.

Question: How many people are affected by vitelliform macular dystrophy ?
Answer: Vitelliform macular dystrophy is a rare disorder; its incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria ?
Answer: The most common form of the condition, called methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria, cblC type, is estimated to affect 1 in 200,000 newborns worldwide. Studies indicate that this form of the condition may be even more common in particular populations. These studies estimate the condition occurs in 1 in 100,000 people in New York and 1 in 60,000 people in California. Other types of methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria are much less common. Fewer than 20 cases of each of the other types have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by 2q37 deletion syndrome ?
Answer: 2q37 deletion syndrome appears to be a rare condition, although its exact prevalence is unknown. Approximately 100 cases have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital mirror movement disorder ?
Answer: Congenital mirror movement disorder is a very rare disorder. Its prevalence is thought to be less than 1 in 1 million. Researchers suggest that some mildly affected individuals may never be diagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by Duane-radial ray syndrome ?
Answer: Duane-radial ray syndrome is a rare condition whose prevalence is unknown. Only a few affected families have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by prion disease ?
Answer: These disorders are very rare. Although the exact prevalence of prion disease is unknown, studies suggest that this group of conditions affects about one person per million worldwide each year. Approximately 350 new cases are reported annually in the United States.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked myotubular myopathy ?
Answer: The incidence of X-linked myotubular myopathy is estimated to be 1 in 50,000 newborn males worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by hyperphosphatemic familial tumoral calcinosis ?
Answer: The prevalence of HFTC is unknown, but it is thought to be a rare condition. It occurs most often in Middle Eastern and African populations.

Question: How many people are affected by frontometaphyseal dysplasia ?
Answer: Frontometaphyseal dysplasia is a rare disorder; only a few dozen cases have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Mabry syndrome ?
Answer: Mabry syndrome is likely a rare condition, but its prevalence is unknown. More than 20 cases have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by harlequin ichthyosis ?
Answer: Harlequin ichthyosis is very rare; its exact incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by boomerang dysplasia ?
Answer: Boomerang dysplasia is a rare disorder; its exact prevalence is unknown. Approximately 10 affected individuals have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: Dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency occurs in an estimated 1 in 35,000 to 48,000 individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish descent. This population typically has liver disease as the primary symptom. In other populations, the prevalence of dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency is unknown, but the condition is likely rare.

Question: How many people are affected by spinal muscular atrophy ?
Answer: Spinal muscular atrophy affects 1 in 6,000 to 1 in 10,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by ankyloblepharon-ectodermal defects-cleft lip/palate syndrome ?
Answer: AEC syndrome is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown. All forms of ectodermal dysplasia together occur in about 1 in 100,000 newborns in the United States.

Question: How many people are affected by pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy ?
Answer: Pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy occurs in 1 in 100,000 to 700,000 individuals. At least 100 cases have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome ?
Answer: The estimated incidence of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome is between 1 and 10 cases per million males worldwide; this condition is rarer in females.

Question: How many people are affected by short QT syndrome ?
Answer: Short QT syndrome appears to be rare. At least 70 cases have been identified worldwide since the condition was discovered in 2000. However, the condition may be underdiagnosed because some affected individuals never experience symptoms.

Question: How many people are affected by spinal muscular atrophy with respiratory distress type 1 ?
Answer: SMARD1 appears to be a rare condition, but its prevalence is unknown. More than 60 cases have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by pseudocholinesterase deficiency ?
Answer: Pseudocholinesterase deficiency occurs in 1 in 3,200 to 1 in 5,000 people. It is more common in certain populations, such as the Persian Jewish community and Alaska Natives.

Question: How many people are affected by Tourette syndrome ?
Answer: Although the exact incidence of Tourette syndrome is uncertain, it is estimated to affect 1 to 10 in 1,000 children. This disorder occurs in populations and ethnic groups worldwide, and it is more common in males than in females.

Question: How many people are affected by fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva ?
Answer: Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva is a very rare disorder, believed to occur in approximately 1 in 2 million people worldwide. Several hundred cases have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by adenosine monophosphate deaminase deficiency ?
Answer: AMP deaminase deficiency is one of the most common inherited muscle disorders in white populations, affecting 1 in 50 to 100 people. The prevalence is lower in African Americans, affecting an estimated 1 in 40,000 people, and the condition is even less common in the Japanese population.

Question: How many people are affected by Snyder-Robinson syndrome ?
Answer: Snyder-Robinson syndrome is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown. About 10 affected families have been identified worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ?
Answer: The precise incidence of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura is unknown. Researchers estimate that, depending on geographic location, the condition affects 1.7 to 11 per million people each year in the United States. For unknown reasons, the disorder occurs more frequently in women than in men. The acquired form of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura is much more common than the familial form.

Question: How many people are affected by autosomal dominant hypocalcemia ?
Answer: The prevalence of autosomal dominant hypocalcemia is unknown. The condition is likely underdiagnosed because it often causes no signs or symptoms.

Question: How many people are affected by progressive supranuclear palsy ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of progressive supranuclear palsy is unknown. It may affect about 6 in 100,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked infantile nystagmus ?
Answer: The incidence of all forms of infantile nystagmus is estimated to be 1 in 5,000 newborns; however, the precise incidence of X-linked infantile nystagmus is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by combined malonic and methylmalonic aciduria ?
Answer: CMAMMA appears to be a rare disease. Approximately a dozen cases have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary fructose intolerance ?
Answer: The incidence of hereditary fructose intolerance is estimated to be 1 in 20,000 to 30,000 individuals each year worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome ?
Answer: This condition is very rare; its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by D-bifunctional protein deficiency ?
Answer: D-bifunctional protein deficiency is estimated to affect 1 in 100,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by ornithine translocase deficiency ?
Answer: Ornithine translocase deficiency is a very rare disorder. Fewer than 100 affected individuals have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked lymphoproliferative disease ?
Answer: XLP1 is estimated to occur in about 1 per million males worldwide. XLP2 is less common, occurring in about 1 per 5 million males.

Question: How many people are affected by metatropic dysplasia ?
Answer: Metatropic dysplasia is a rare disease; its exact prevalence is unknown. More than 80 affected individuals have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by DOLK-congenital disorder of glycosylation ?
Answer: DOLK-CDG is likely a rare condition; at least 18 cases have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Li-Fraumeni syndrome ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of Li-Fraumeni is unknown. One U.S. registry of Li-Fraumeni syndrome patients suggests that about 400 people from 64 families have this disorder.

Question: How many people are affected by CASK-related intellectual disability ?
Answer: The prevalence of CASK-related intellectual disability is unknown. More than 50 females with MICPCH have been described in the medical literature, while only a few affected males have been described.  By contrast, more than 20 males but only a few females have been diagnosed with the milder form of the disorder, XL-ID with or without nystagmus. This form of the disorder may go unrecognized in mildly affected females.

Question: How many people are affected by facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy ?
Answer: Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy has an estimated prevalence of 1 in 20,000 people. About 95 percent of all cases are FSHD1; the remaining 5 percent are FSHD2.

Question: How many people are affected by paramyotonia congenita ?
Answer: Paramyotonia congenita is an uncommon disorder; it is estimated to affect fewer than 1 in 100,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by Bowen-Conradi syndrome ?
Answer: Bowen-Conradi syndrome is common in the Hutterite population in Canada and the United States; it occurs in approximately 1 per 355 newborns in all three Hutterite sects (leuts). A few individuals from outside the Hutterite community with signs and symptoms similar to Bowen-Conradi syndrome have been described in the medical literature. Researchers differ as to whether these individuals have Bowen-Conradi syndrome or a similar but distinct disorder.

Question: How many people are affected by Paget disease of bone ?
Answer: Classic Paget disease of bone occurs in approximately 1 percent of people older than 40 in the United States. Scientists estimate that about 1 million people in this country have the disease. It is most common in people of western European heritage.  Early-onset Paget disease of bone is much rarer. This form of the disorder has been reported in only a few families.

Question: How many people are affected by mycosis fungoides ?
Answer: Mycosis fungoides occurs in about 1 in 100,000 to 350,000 individuals. It accounts for approximately 70 percent of cutaneous T-cell lymphomas. For unknown reasons, mycosis fungoides affects males nearly twice as often as females. In the United States, there are an estimated 3.6 cases per million people each year. The condition has been found in regions around the world.

Question: How many people are affected by distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type V ?
Answer: The incidence of distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type V is unknown. Only a small number of cases have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by Muenke syndrome ?
Answer: Muenke syndrome occurs in about 1 in 30,000 newborns. This condition accounts for an estimated 8 percent of all cases of craniosynostosis.

Question: How many people are affected by Gitelman syndrome ?
Answer: Gitelman syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 40,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy ?
Answer: DRPLA is most common in the Japanese population, where it has an estimated incidence of 2 to 7 per million people. This condition has also been seen in families from North America and Europe.  Although DRPLA is rare in the United States, it has been studied in a large African American family from the Haw River area of North Carolina. When the family was first identified, researchers named the disorder Haw River syndrome. Later, researchers determined that Haw River syndrome and DRPLA are the same condition.

Question: How many people are affected by periventricular heterotopia ?
Answer: Periventricular heterotopia is a rare condition. Its incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by spastic paraplegia type 3A ?
Answer: Spastic paraplegia type 3A belongs to a subgroup of hereditary spastic paraplegias known as autosomal dominant hereditary spastic paraplegia, which has an estimated prevalence of 2 to 9 per 100,000 individuals. Spastic paraplegia type 3A accounts for 10 to 15 percent of all autosomal dominant hereditary spastic paraplegia cases.

Question: How many people are affected by sickle cell disease ?
Answer: Sickle cell disease affects millions of people worldwide. It is most common among people whose ancestors come from Africa; Mediterranean countries such as Greece, Turkey, and Italy; the Arabian Peninsula; India; and Spanish-speaking regions in South America, Central America, and parts of the Caribbean.  Sickle cell disease is the most common inherited blood disorder in the United States, affecting 70,000 to 80,000 Americans. The disease is estimated to occur in 1 in 500 African Americans and 1 in 1,000 to 1,400 Hispanic Americans.

Question: How many people are affected by histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy plus syndrome ?
Answer: Histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy plus syndrome is a rare disorder, affecting approximately 100 individuals worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by distal myopathy 2 ?
Answer: The prevalence of distal myopathy 2 is unknown. At least two families with the condition have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by adenylosuccinate lyase deficiency ?
Answer: Adenylosuccinate lyase deficiency is a rare disorder; fewer than 100 cases have been reported. The condition is most common in the Netherlands and Belgium, but it has been found worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis ?
Answer: Pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. About 600 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature, of whom about a quarter are of Turkish descent. The remainder come from populations worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Wagner syndrome ?
Answer: Wagner syndrome is a rare disorder, although its exact prevalence is unknown. Approximately 300 affected individuals have been described worldwide; about half of these individuals are from the Netherlands.

Question: How many people are affected by Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome ?
Answer: Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome is estimated to affect less than 1 per million people worldwide. Several dozen cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by aspartylglucosaminuria ?
Answer: Aspartylglucosaminuria is estimated to affect 1 in 18,500 people in Finland. This condition is less common outside of Finland, but the incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by adenine phosphoribosyltransferase deficiency ?
Answer: APRT deficiency is estimated to affect 1 in 27,000 people in Japan. The condition is rarer in Europe, where it is thought to affect 1 in 50,000 to 100,000 people. The prevalence of APRT deficiency outside these populations is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by FG syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of FG syndrome is unknown, although several hundred cases have been reported worldwide. Researchers suspect that FG syndrome may be overdiagnosed because many of its signs and symptoms are also seen with other disorders.

Question: How many people are affected by leukocyte adhesion deficiency type 1 ?
Answer: Leukocyte adhesion deficiency type 1 is estimated to occur in 1 per million people worldwide. At least 300 cases of this condition have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Menkes syndrome ?
Answer: The incidence of Menkes syndrome and occipital horn syndrome is estimated to be 1 in 100,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by pseudoachondroplasia ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of pseudoachondroplasia is unknown; it is estimated to occur in 1 in 30,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by lacrimo-auriculo-dento-digital syndrome ?
Answer: LADD syndrome appears to be a rare condition; at least 60 cases have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by alternating hemiplegia of childhood ?
Answer: Alternating hemiplegia of childhood is a rare condition that affects approximately 1 in 1 million people.

Question: How many people are affected by progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis ?
Answer: PFIC is estimated to affect 1 in 50,000 to 100,000 people worldwide. PFIC type 1 is much more common in the Inuit population of Greenland and the Old Order Amish population of the United States.

Question: How many people are affected by megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts ?
Answer: Megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts is a rare condition; its exact prevalence is unknown. More than 150 cases have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by trimethylaminuria ?
Answer: Trimethylaminuria is an uncommon genetic disorder; its incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by horizontal gaze palsy with progressive scoliosis ?
Answer: HGPPS has been reported in several dozen families worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by primary macronodular adrenal hyperplasia ?
Answer: PMAH is a rare disorder. It is present in less than 1 percent of cases of endogenous Cushing syndrome, which describes forms of Cushing syndrome caused by factors internal to the body rather than by external factors such as long-term use of certain medicines called corticosteroids. The prevalence of endogenous Cushing syndrome is about 1 in 26,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by Baller-Gerold syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Baller-Gerold syndrome is unknown, but this rare condition probably affects fewer than 1 per million people. Fewer than 40 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Usher syndrome ?
Answer: Usher syndrome is thought to be responsible for 3 percent to 6 percent of all childhood deafness and about 50 percent of deaf-blindness in adults. Usher syndrome type I is estimated to occur in at least 4 per 100,000 people. It may be more common in certain ethnic populations, such as people with Ashkenazi (central and eastern European) Jewish ancestry and the Acadian population in Louisiana. Type II is thought to be the most common form of Usher syndrome, although the frequency of this type is unknown. Type III Usher syndrome accounts for only a small percentage of all Usher syndrome cases in most populations. This form of the condition is more common in the Finnish population, however, where it accounts for about 40 percent of all cases.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary angioedema ?
Answer: Hereditary angioedema is estimated to affect 1 in 50,000 people. Type I is the most common, accounting for 85 percent of cases. Type II occurs in 15 percent of cases, and type III is very rare.

Question: How many people are affected by Proteus syndrome ?
Answer: Proteus syndrome is a rare condition with an incidence of less than 1 in 1 million people worldwide. Only a few hundred affected individuals have been reported in the medical literature.  Researchers believe that Proteus syndrome may be overdiagnosed, as some individuals with other conditions featuring asymmetric overgrowth have been mistakenly diagnosed with Proteus syndrome. To make an accurate diagnosis, most doctors and researchers now follow a set of strict guidelines that define the signs and symptoms of Proteus syndrome.

Question: How many people are affected by cytochrome c oxidase deficiency ?
Answer: In Eastern Europe, cytochrome c oxidase deficiency is estimated to occur in 1 in 35,000 individuals. The prevalence of this condition outside this region is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked hyper IgM syndrome ?
Answer: X-linked hyper IgM syndrome is estimated to occur in 2 per million newborn boys.

Question: How many people are affected by autosomal recessive primary microcephaly ?
Answer: The prevalence of all forms of microcephaly that are present from birth (primary microcephaly) ranges from 1 in 30,000 to 1 in 250,000 newborns worldwide. About 200 families with MCPH have been reported in the medical literature. This condition is more common in several specific populations, such as in northern Pakistan, where it affects an estimated 1 in 10,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy ?
Answer: In Europe, the prevalence of oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy is estimated to be 1 in 100,000 people. The autosomal dominant form of this condition is much more common in the French-Canadian population of the Canadian province of Quebec, where it is estimated to affect 1 in 1,000 individuals. Autosomal dominant oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy is also seen more frequently in the Bukharan (Central Asian) Jewish population of Israel, affecting 1 in 600 people.  The autosomal recessive form of this condition is very rare; only a few cases of autosomal recessive oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by von Willebrand disease ?
Answer: Von Willebrand disease is estimated to affect 1 in 100 to 10,000 individuals. Because people with mild signs and symptoms may not come to medical attention, it is thought that this condition is underdiagnosed. Most researchers agree that von Willebrand disease is the most common genetic bleeding disorder.

Question: How many people are affected by Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome ?
Answer: Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome is a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown. It is difficult to identify the number of affected individuals, because some cases diagnosed as Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome may instead be Marfan syndrome or Loeys-Dietz syndrome, which have overlapping signs and symptoms.

Question: How many people are affected by glutamate formiminotransferase deficiency ?
Answer: Glutamate formiminotransferase deficiency is a rare disorder; approximately 20 affected individuals have been identified. Of these, about one-quarter have the severe form of the disorder. Everyone reported with the severe form has been of Japanese origin. The remaining individuals, who come from a variety of ethnic backgrounds, are affected by the mild form of the condition.

Question: How many people are affected by Northern epilepsy ?
Answer: Northern epilepsy appears to affect only individuals of Finnish ancestry, particularly those from the Kainuu region of northern Finland. Approximately 1 in 10,000 individuals in this region have the condition.

Question: How many people are affected by Miller syndrome ?
Answer: Miller syndrome is a rare disorder; it is estimated to affect fewer than 1 in 1 million newborns. At least 30 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Ehlers-Danlos syndrome ?
Answer: Although it is difficult to estimate the overall frequency of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, the combined prevalence of all types of this condition may be about 1 in 5,000 individuals worldwide. The hypermobility and classical forms are most common; the hypermobility type may affect as many as 1 in 10,000 to 15,000 people, while the classical type probably occurs in 1 in 20,000 to 40,000 people.  Other forms of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome are very rare. About 30 cases of the arthrochalasia type and about 60 cases of the kyphoscoliosis type have been reported worldwide. About a dozen infants and children with the dermatosparaxis type have been described. The vascular type is also rare; estimates vary widely, but the condition may affect about 1 in 250,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by Werner syndrome ?
Answer: Werner syndrome is estimated to affect 1 in 200,000 individuals in the United States. This syndrome occurs more often in Japan, affecting 1 in 20,000 to 1 in 40,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked infantile spasm syndrome ?
Answer: Infantile spasms are estimated to affect 1 to 1.6 in 100,000 individuals. This estimate includes X-linked infantile spasm syndrome as well as infantile spasms that have other causes.

Question: How many people are affected by Knobloch syndrome ?
Answer: Knobloch syndrome is a rare condition. However, the exact prevalence of the condition is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis ?
Answer: SJS/TEN is a rare disease, affecting 1 to 2 per million people each year. Stevens-Johnson syndrome (the less severe form of the condition) is more common than toxic epidermal necrolysis.  People who are HIV-positive and those with a chronic inflammatory disease called systemic lupus erythematosus are more likely to develop SJS/TEN than the general population. The reason for the increased risk is unclear, but immune system factors and exposure to multiple medications may play a role.

Question: How many people are affected by benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis ?
Answer: BRIC is a rare disorder. Although the prevalence is unknown, this condition is less common than the related disorder PFIC, which affects approximately 1 in 50,000 to 100,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Wilson disease ?
Answer: Wilson disease is a rare disorder that affects approximately 1 in 30,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by beta thalassemia ?
Answer: Beta thalassemia is a fairly common blood disorder worldwide. Thousands of infants with beta thalassemia are born each year. Beta thalassemia occurs most frequently in people from Mediterranean countries, North Africa, the Middle East, India, Central Asia, and Southeast Asia.

Question: How many people are affected by esophageal atresia/tracheoesophageal fistula ?
Answer: EA/TEF occurs in 1 in 3,000 to 5,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by PDGFRB-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of PDGFRB-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia is unknown. For unknown reasons, males are up to nine times more likely than females to develop PDGFRB-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia.

Question: How many people are affected by androgen insensitivity syndrome ?
Answer: Complete androgen insensitivity syndrome affects 2 to 5 per 100,000 people who are genetically male. Partial androgen insensitivity is thought to be at least as common as complete androgen insensitivity. Mild androgen insensitivity is much less common.

Question: How many people are affected by spondyloenchondrodysplasia with immune dysregulation ?
Answer: SPENCDI appears to be a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by oculodentodigital dysplasia ?
Answer: The exact incidence of oculodentodigital dysplasia is unknown. It has been diagnosed in fewer than 1,000 people worldwide. More cases are likely undiagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by cone-rod dystrophy ?
Answer: Cone-rod dystrophy is estimated to affect 1 in 30,000 to 40,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by multiple endocrine neoplasia ?
Answer: Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 affects about 1 in 30,000 people; multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 affects an estimated 1 in 35,000 people. Among the subtypes of type 2, type 2A is the most common form, followed by FMTC. Type 2B is relatively uncommon, accounting for about 5 percent of all cases of type 2. The prevalence of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 4 is unknown, although the condition appears to be rare.

Question: How many people are affected by isovaleric acidemia ?
Answer: Isovaleric acidemia is estimated to affect at least 1 in 250,000 people in the United States.

Question: How many people are affected by activated PI3K-delta syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of activated PI3K-delta syndrome is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by mucopolysaccharidosis type II ?
Answer: MPS II occurs in approximately 1 in 100,000 to 1 in 170,000 males.

Question: How many people are affected by fish-eye disease ?
Answer: Fish-eye disease is a rare disorder. Approximately 30 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by factor V deficiency ?
Answer: Factor V deficiency affects an estimated 1 in 1 million people. This condition is more common in countries such as Iran and southern India, where it occurs up to ten times more frequently than in western countries.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata 2 ?
Answer: X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata 2 has been estimated to affect fewer than 1 in 400,000 newborns. However, the disorder may actually be more common than this estimate because it is likely underdiagnosed, particularly in females with mild signs and symptoms.  More than 95 percent of cases of X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata 2 occur in females. About a dozen males with the condition have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by familial idiopathic basal ganglia calcification ?
Answer: FIBGC is thought to be a rare disorder; about 60 affected families have been described in the medical literature. However, because brain imaging tests are needed to recognize the calcium deposits, this condition is believed to be underdiagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by familial atrial fibrillation ?
Answer: Atrial fibrillation is the most common type of sustained abnormal heart rhythm (arrhythmia), affecting more than 3 million people in the United States. The risk of developing this irregular heart rhythm increases with age. The incidence of the familial form of atrial fibrillation is unknown; however, recent studies suggest that up to 30 percent of all people with atrial fibrillation may have a history of the condition in their family.

Question: How many people are affected by isolated growth hormone deficiency ?
Answer: The incidence of isolated growth hormone deficiency is estimated to be 1 in 4,000 to 10,000 individuals worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Alstrm syndrome ?
Answer: More than 900 people with Alstrm syndrome have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Meige disease ?
Answer: The prevalence of Meige disease is unknown. Collectively, the many types of primary lymphedema affect an estimated 1 in 100,000 people younger than 20; Meige disease is the most common type of primary lymphedema.  For unknown reasons, this condition affects females about three times as often as males.

Question: How many people are affected by hand-foot-genital syndrome ?
Answer: Hand-foot-genital syndrome is very rare; only a few families with the condition have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Baraitser-Winter syndrome ?
Answer: Baraitser-Winter syndrome is a rare condition. Fewer than 50 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by methylmalonic acidemia ?
Answer: This condition occurs in an estimated 1 in 50,000 to 100,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital hepatic fibrosis ?
Answer: Isolated congenital hepatic fibrosis is rare. Its prevalence is unknown. The total prevalence of syndromes that include congenital hepatic fibrosis as a feature is estimated to be 1 in 10,000 to 20,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by 22q11.2 deletion syndrome ?
Answer: 22q11.2 deletion syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 4,000 people. However, the condition may actually be more common than this estimate because doctors and researchers suspect it is underdiagnosed due to its variable features. The condition may not be identified in people with mild signs and symptoms, or it may be mistaken for other disorders with overlapping features.

Question: How many people are affected by peroxisomal acyl-CoA oxidase deficiency ?
Answer: Peroxisomal acyl-CoA oxidase deficiency is a rare disorder. Its prevalence is unknown. Only a few dozen cases have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by 3-M syndrome ?
Answer: 3-M syndrome is a rare disorder. About 50 individuals with this disorder have been identified worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by 9q22.3 microdeletion ?
Answer: 9q22.3 microdeletion appears to be a rare chromosomal change. About three dozen affected individuals have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by collagen VI-related myopathy ?
Answer: Collagen VI-related myopathy is rare. Bethlem myopathy is estimated to occur in 0.77 per 100,000 individuals, and Ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy is estimated to occur in 0.13 per 100,000 individuals. Only a few cases of the intermediate form have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies ?
Answer: Hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies is estimated to occur in 2 to 5 per 100,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by familial paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia ?
Answer: Familial paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia is estimated to occur in 1 in 150,000 individuals. For unknown reasons, this condition affects more males than females.

Question: How many people are affected by atelosteogenesis type 3 ?
Answer: Atelosteogenesis type 3 is a rare disorder; its exact prevalence is unknown. About two dozen affected individuals have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by Walker-Warburg syndrome ?
Answer: Walker-Warburg syndrome is estimated to affect 1 in 60,500 newborns worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Smith-Magenis syndrome ?
Answer: Smith-Magenis syndrome affects at least 1 in 25,000 individuals worldwide. Researchers believe that many people with this condition are not diagnosed, however, so the true prevalence may be closer to 1 in 15,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by glycogen storage disease type VI ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of GSDVI is unknown. At least 11 cases have been reported in the medical literature, although this condition is likely to be underdiagnosed because it can be difficult to detect in children with mild symptoms or adults with no symptoms. GSDVI is more common in the Old Older Mennonite population, with an estimated incidence of 1 in 1,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by ring chromosome 14 syndrome ?
Answer: Ring chromosome 14 syndrome appears to be a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown. More than 50 affected individuals have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Griscelli syndrome ?
Answer: Griscelli syndrome is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown. Type 2 appears to be the most common of the three known types.

Question: How many people are affected by Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome ?
Answer: Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome is a rare disorder in most populations and is estimated to affect 1 in 500,000 to 1,000,000 individuals worldwide. Type 1 is more common in Puerto Rico, particularly in the northwestern part of the island where about 1 in 1,800 people are affected. Type 3 is common in people from central Puerto Rico. Groups of affected individuals have been identified in many other regions, including India, Japan, the United Kingdom, and Western Europe.

Question: How many people are affected by asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy ?
Answer: Asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy affects an estimated 1 in 100,000 to 130,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by Joubert syndrome ?
Answer: Joubert syndrome is estimated to affect between 1 in 80,000 and 1 in 100,000 newborns. However, this estimate may be too low because Joubert syndrome has such a large range of possible features and is likely underdiagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by neurofibromatosis type 1 ?
Answer: Neurofibromatosis type 1 occurs in 1 in 3,000 to 4,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by adenosine deaminase deficiency ?
Answer: Adenosine deaminase deficiency is very rare and is estimated to occur in approximately 1 in 200,000 to 1,000,000 newborns worldwide. This disorder is responsible for approximately 15 percent of SCID cases.

Question: How many people are affected by myotonic dystrophy ?
Answer: Myotonic dystrophy affects at least 1 in 8,000 people worldwide. The prevalence of the two types of myotonic dystrophy varies among different geographic and ethnic populations. In most populations, type 1 appears to be more common than type 2. However, recent studies suggest that type 2 may be as common as type 1 among people in Germany and Finland.

Question: How many people are affected by Pol III-related leukodystrophy ?
Answer: Pol III-related leukodystrophy is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. Only about 40 cases have been described in the medical literature. However, researchers believe that a significant percentage of people with an unspecified hypomyelinating leukodystrophy could have Pol III-related leukodystrophy.

Question: How many people are affected by Legius syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Legius syndrome is unknown. Many individuals with this disorder are likely misdiagnosed because the signs and symptoms of Legius syndrome are similar to those of neurofibromatosis type 1.

Question: How many people are affected by Perrault syndrome ?
Answer: Perrault syndrome is a rare disorder; fewer than 100 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature. It is likely that the condition is underdiagnosed, because males without an affected sister will likely be misdiagnosed as having isolated (nonsyndromic) hearing loss rather than Perrault syndrome.

Question: How many people are affected by hepatic veno-occlusive disease with immunodeficiency ?
Answer: VODI appears to be a rare disorder; approximately 20 affected families have been reported worldwide. Most people diagnosed with the condition have been of Lebanese ancestry. However, the disorder has also been identified in several individuals with other backgrounds in the United States and Italy.

Question: How many people are affected by arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy ?
Answer: ARVC occurs in an estimated 1 in 1,000 to 1 in 1,250 people. This disorder may be underdiagnosed because it can be difficult to detect in people with mild or no symptoms.

Question: How many people are affected by dihydropyrimidinase deficiency ?
Answer: Dihydropyrimidinase deficiency is thought to be a rare disorder. Only a few dozen affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by MYH9-related disorder ?
Answer: The incidence of MYH9-related disorder is unknown. More than 200 affected families have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Ellis-van Creveld syndrome ?
Answer: In most parts of the world, Ellis-van Creveld syndrome occurs in 1 in 60,000 to 200,000 newborns. It is difficult to estimate the exact prevalence because the disorder is very rare in the general population. This condition is much more common in the Old Order Amish population of Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, and in the indigenous (native) population of Western Australia.

Question: How many people are affected by Lennox-Gastaut syndrome ?
Answer: Lennox-Gastaut syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 50,000 to 1 in 100,000 children. This condition accounts for about 4 percent of all cases of childhood epilepsy. For unknown reasons, it appears to be more common in males than in females.

Question: How many people are affected by nonsyndromic aplasia cutis congenita ?
Answer: Aplasia cutis congenita affects approximately 1 in 10,000 newborns. The incidence of the nonsyndromic form is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by DOORS syndrome ?
Answer: DOORS syndrome is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. Approximately 50 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Arts syndrome ?
Answer: Arts syndrome appears to be extremely rare. Only a few families with this disorder have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by triple A syndrome ?
Answer: Triple A syndrome is a rare condition, although its exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by ichthyosis with confetti ?
Answer: Ichthyosis with confetti is a rare disorder. Fewer than 20 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital leptin deficiency ?
Answer: Congenital leptin deficiency is a rare disorder. Only a few dozen cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by erythromelalgia ?
Answer: The prevalence of erythromelalgia is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by glucose phosphate isomerase deficiency ?
Answer: GPI deficiency is a rare cause of hemolytic anemia; its prevalence is unknown. About 50 cases have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: An estimated 400 million people worldwide have glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency. This condition occurs most frequently in certain parts of Africa, Asia, and the Mediterranean. It affects about 1 in 10 African American males in the United States.

Question: How many people are affected by North American Indian childhood cirrhosis ?
Answer: North American Indian childhood cirrhosis has been found only in children of Ojibway-Cree descent in the Abitibi region of northwestern Quebec, Canada. At least 30 affected individuals from this population have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by factor XIII deficiency ?
Answer: Inherited factor XIII deficiency affects 1 to 3 per million people worldwide. Researchers suspect that mild factor XIII deficiency, including the acquired form of the disorder, is underdiagnosed because many affected people never have a major episode of abnormal bleeding that would lead to a diagnosis.

Question: How many people are affected by cryptogenic cirrhosis ?
Answer: Cirrhosis affects more than 600,000 people in the United States; cryptogenic cirrhosis likely accounts for 5 to 30 percent of these cases.

Question: How many people are affected by medullary cystic kidney disease type 1 ?
Answer: MCKD1 is a rare disorder, although its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Gilbert syndrome ?
Answer: Gilbert syndrome is a common condition that is estimated to affect 3 to 7 percent of Americans.

Question: How many people are affected by glycogen storage disease type IX ?
Answer: GSD IX that affects the liver is estimated to occur in 1 in 100,000 people. The forms of the disease that affect muscles or both muscles and liver are much less common, although the prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by nonsyndromic holoprosencephaly ?
Answer: Nonsyndromic holoprosencephaly accounts for approximately 25 to 50 percent of all cases of holoprosencephaly, which affects an estimated 1 in 10,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: Approximately 350 people with succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by familial erythrocytosis ?
Answer: Familial erythrocytosis is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by autosomal dominant congenital stationary night blindness ?
Answer: Autosomal dominant congenital stationary night blindness is likely a rare disease; however, its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Romano-Ward syndrome ?
Answer: Romano-Ward syndrome is the most common form of inherited long QT syndrome, affecting an estimated 1 in 7,000 people worldwide. The disorder may actually be more common than this estimate, however, because some people never experience any symptoms associated with arrhythmia and therefore may not have been diagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by Timothy syndrome ?
Answer: Timothy syndrome is a rare condition; fewer than 20 people with this disorder have been reported worldwide. The classic type of Timothy syndrome appears to be more common than the atypical type, which has been identified in only two individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by phosphoglycerate kinase deficiency ?
Answer: Phosphoglycerate kinase deficiency appears to be a rare disorder. About 30 families with affected members have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by fumarase deficiency ?
Answer: Fumarase deficiency is a very rare disorder. Approximately 100 affected individuals have been reported worldwide. Several were born in an isolated religious community in the southwestern United States.

Question: How many people are affected by 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA hydratase deficiency ?
Answer: 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA hydratase deficiency is a rare disorder; at least 20 cases have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome ?
Answer: Studies show that approximately 1 in 450 males has the genetic change that leads to FXTAS, although the condition occurs in only about 40 percent of them. It is estimated that 1 in 3,000 men over age 50 is affected. Similarly, 1 in 200 females has the genetic change, but only an estimated 16 percent of them develop signs and symptoms of FXTAS.

Question: How many people are affected by Perry syndrome ?
Answer: Perry syndrome is very rare; about 50 affected individuals have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by von Hippel-Lindau syndrome ?
Answer: The incidence of von Hippel-Lindau syndrome is estimated to be 1 in 36,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis ?
Answer: The incidence of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis is estimated to be 3 to 5 per 100,000 people worldwide. This condition is more common in the Moroccan Jewish population with an incidence of 1 in 108 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by lymphedema-distichiasis syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of lymphedema-distichiasis syndrome is unknown. Because the extra eyelashes can be overlooked during a medical examination, researchers believe that some people with this condition may be misdiagnosed as having lymphedema only.

Question: How many people are affected by Jacobsen syndrome ?
Answer: The estimated incidence of Jacobsen syndrome is 1 in 100,000 newborns. More than 200 affected individuals have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by Mainzer-Saldino syndrome ?
Answer: Mainzer-Saldino syndrome is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. At least 20 cases have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by Angelman syndrome ?
Answer: Angelman syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 12,000 to 20,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by mucopolysaccharidosis type I ?
Answer: Severe MPS I occurs in approximately 1 in 100,000 newborns. Attenuated MPS I is less common and occurs in about 1 in 500,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy ?
Answer: ADNFLE appears to be an uncommon form of epilepsy; its prevalence is unknown. This condition has been reported in more than 100 families worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by ocular albinism ?
Answer: The most common form of this disorder, ocular albinism type 1, affects at least 1 in 60,000 males. The classic signs and symptoms of this condition are much less common in females.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer ?
Answer: HLRCC has been reported in approximately 100 families worldwide. Its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by gray platelet syndrome ?
Answer: Gray platelet syndrome appears to be a rare disorder. About 60 cases have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Rothmund-Thomson syndrome ?
Answer: Rothmund-Thomson syndrome is a rare disorder; its incidence is unknown. About 300 people with this condition have been reported worldwide in scientific studies.

Question: How many people are affected by familial exudative vitreoretinopathy ?
Answer: The prevalence of familial exudative vitreoretinopathy is unknown. It appears to be rare, although affected people with normal vision may never come to medical attention.

Question: How many people are affected by spondyloperipheral dysplasia ?
Answer: This condition is rare; only a few affected individuals have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by platyspondylic lethal skeletal dysplasia, Torrance type ?
Answer: This condition is very rare; only a few affected individuals have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome ?
Answer: Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome appears to be a rare disorder. About 25 families with individuals affected by this condition have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by triosephosphate isomerase deficiency ?
Answer: Triosephosphate isomerase deficiency is likely a rare condition; approximately 40 cases have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Clouston syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Clouston syndrome is unknown. Cases have been reported in many populations; the disorder is especially common among people of French-Canadian descent.

Question: How many people are affected by familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ?
Answer: Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy affects an estimated 1 in 500 people worldwide. It is the most common genetic heart disease in the United States.

Question: How many people are affected by keratitis-ichthyosis-deafness syndrome ?
Answer: KID syndrome is a rare disorder. Its prevalence is unknown. Approximately 100 cases have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by 7q11.23 duplication syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of this disorder is estimated to be 1 in 7,500 to 20,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by 22q13.3 deletion syndrome ?
Answer: At least 500 cases of 22q13.3 deletion syndrome are known.

Question: How many people are affected by ALG6-congenital disorder of glycosylation ?
Answer: The prevalence of ALG6-CDG is unknown, but it is thought to be the second most common type of congenital disorder of glycosylation. More than 30 cases of ALG6-CDG have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by sialuria ?
Answer: Fewer than 10 people worldwide have been diagnosed with sialuria. There are probably more people with the disorder who have not been diagnosed, as sialuria can be difficult to detect because of its variable features.

Question: How many people are affected by Schindler disease ?
Answer: Schindler disease is very rare. Only a few individuals with each type of the disorder have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by Lynch syndrome ?
Answer: In the United States, about 140,000 new cases of colorectal cancer are diagnosed each year. Approximately 3 to 5 percent of these cancers are caused by Lynch syndrome.

Question: How many people are affected by Gaucher disease ?
Answer: Gaucher disease occurs in 1 in 50,000 to 100,000 people in the general population. Type 1 is the most common form of the disorder; it occurs more frequently in people of Ashkenazi (eastern and central European) Jewish heritage than in those with other backgrounds. This form of the condition affects 1 in 500 to 1,000 people of Ashkenazi Jewish heritage. The other forms of Gaucher disease are uncommon and do not occur more frequently in people of Ashkenazi Jewish descent.

Question: How many people are affected by Cockayne syndrome ?
Answer: Cockayne syndrome occurs in about 2 per million newborns in the United States and Europe.

Question: How many people are affected by actin-accumulation myopathy ?
Answer: Actin-accumulation myopathy is a rare disorder that has been identified in only a small number of individuals. Its exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Hirschsprung disease ?
Answer: Hirschsprung disease occurs in approximately 1 in 5,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by fragile X syndrome ?
Answer: Fragile X syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 4,000 males and 1 in 8,000 females.

Question: How many people are affected by ZAP70-related severe combined immunodeficiency ?
Answer: ZAP70-related SCID is a rare disorder. Only about 20 affected individuals have been identified. The prevalence of SCID from all genetic causes combined is approximately 1 in 50,000.

Question: How many people are affected by Cant syndrome ?
Answer: Cant syndrome is a rare condition. About three dozen affected individuals have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Russell-Silver syndrome ?
Answer: The exact incidence of Russell-Silver syndrome is unknown, but the condition is estimated to affect 1 in 75,000 to 100,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by Hennekam syndrome ?
Answer: At least 50 cases of Hennekam syndrome have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by eosinophil peroxidase deficiency ?
Answer: Approximately 100 individuals with eosinophil peroxidase deficiency have been described in the scientific literature. Based on blood test data, varying estimates of the prevalence of the condition have been reported in specific populations. Eosinophil peroxidase deficiency is estimated to occur in 8.6 in 1,000 Yemenite Jews, in 3 in 1,000 North-African Jews, and in 1 in 1,000 Iraqi Jews. In northeastern Italy, the condition occurs in approximately 1 in 14,000 individuals; in Japan it occurs in 1 in 36,000 people; and in Luxembourg, eosinophil peroxidase deficiency is thought to occur in 1 in 100,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by Friedreich ataxia ?
Answer: Friedreich ataxia is estimated to affect 1 in 40,000 people. This condition is found in people with European, Middle Eastern, or North African ancestry. It is rarely identified in other ethnic groups.

Question: How many people are affected by Meesmann corneal dystrophy ?
Answer: Meesmann corneal dystrophy is a rare disorder whose prevalence is unknown. It was first described in a large, multi-generational German family with more than 100 affected members. Since then, the condition has been reported in individuals and families worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by factor X deficiency ?
Answer: Factor X deficiency occurs in approximately 1 per million individuals worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Senior-Lken syndrome ?
Answer: Senior-Lken syndrome is a rare disorder, with an estimated prevalence of about 1 in 1 million people worldwide. Only a few families with the condition have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by primary myelofibrosis ?
Answer: Primary myelofibrosis is a rare condition that affects approximately 1 in 500,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by piebaldism ?
Answer: The prevalence of piebaldism is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Laron syndrome ?
Answer: Laron syndrome is a rare disorder. About 350 people have been diagnosed with the condition worldwide. The largest single group of affected individuals (about 100 people) lives in an area of southern Ecuador.

Question: How many people are affected by spastic paraplegia type 15 ?
Answer: Spastic paraplegia type 15 is a rare condition, although its exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by vitamin D-dependent rickets ?
Answer: Rickets affects an estimated 1 in 200,000 children. The condition is most often caused by a lack of vitamin D in the diet or insufficient sun exposure rather than genetic mutations; genetic forms of rickets, including VDDR1 and VDDR2, are much less common. The prevalence of VDDR1 and VDDR2 is unknown. VDDR1 is more common in the French Canadian population than in other populations.

Question: How many people are affected by 1q21.1 microdeletion ?
Answer: 1q21.1 microdeletion is a rare chromosomal change; only a few dozen individuals with this deletion have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by autosomal recessive hyper-IgE syndrome ?
Answer: AR-HIES is a rare disorder whose prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis ?
Answer: The incidence of infantile NCL is unknown. Collectively, all forms of NCL affect an estimated 1 in 100,000 individuals worldwide. NCLs are more common in Finland, where approximately 1 in 12,500 individuals are affected.

Question: How many people are affected by Crigler-Najjar syndrome ?
Answer: Crigler-Najjar syndrome is estimated to affect fewer than 1 in 1 million newborns worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by idiopathic inflammatory myopathy ?
Answer: The incidence of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy is approximately 2 to 8 cases per million people each year.  For unknown reasons, polymyositis and dermatomyositis are about twice as common in women as in men, while sporadic inclusion body myositis is more common in men.

Question: How many people are affected by isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: IBD deficiency is a rare disorder; approximately 22 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by spastic paraplegia type 8 ?
Answer: The prevalence of all hereditary spastic paraplegias combined is estimated to be 1 to 18 in 100,000 people worldwide. Spastic paraplegia type 8 likely accounts for only a small percentage of all spastic paraplegia cases.

Question: How many people are affected by lamellar ichthyosis ?
Answer: Lamellar ichthyosis is estimated to affect 1 in 100,000 individuals in the United States. This condition is more common in Norway, where an estimated 1 in 91,000 individuals are affected.

Question: How many people are affected by Huntington disease ?
Answer: Huntington disease affects an estimated 3 to 7 per 100,000 people of European ancestry. The disorder appears to be less common in some other populations, including people of Japanese, Chinese, and African descent.

Question: How many people are affected by dyserythropoietic anemia and thrombocytopenia ?
Answer: Dyserythropoietic anemia and thrombocytopenia is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown. Occasionally, individuals with this disorder are mistakenly diagnosed as having more common blood disorders, making it even more difficult to determine how many people have dyserythropoietic anemia and thrombocytopenia.

Question: How many people are affected by progressive pseudorheumatoid dysplasia ?
Answer: PPRD has been estimated to occur in approximately 1 per million people in the United Kingdom. The condition is thought to be more common in Turkey and the Middle East, although its prevalence in these regions is unknown. The condition in all regions is likely underdiagnosed because it is often misdiagnosed as juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.

Question: How many people are affected by rapid-onset dystonia parkinsonism ?
Answer: Rapid-onset dystonia parkinsonism appears to be a rare disorder, although its prevalence is unknown. It has been diagnosed in individuals and families from the United States, Europe, and Korea.

Question: How many people are affected by breast cancer ?
Answer: Breast cancer is the second most commonly diagnosed cancer in women. (Only skin cancer is more common.) About one in eight women in the United States will develop invasive breast cancer in her lifetime. Researchers estimate that more than 230,000 new cases of invasive breast cancer will be diagnosed in U.S. women in 2015.  Male breast cancer represents less than 1 percent of all breast cancer diagnoses. Scientists estimate that about 2,300 new cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed in men in 2015.  Particular gene mutations associated with breast cancer are more common among certain geographic or ethnic groups, such as people of Ashkenazi (central or eastern European) Jewish heritage and people of Norwegian, Icelandic, or Dutch ancestry.

Question: How many people are affected by Kniest dysplasia ?
Answer: Kniest dysplasia is a rare condition; the exact incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by ethylmalonic encephalopathy ?
Answer: About 30 individuals with this condition have been identified worldwide, mostly in Mediterranean and Arab populations. Although ethylmalonic encephalopathy appears to be very rare, researchers suggest that some cases have been misdiagnosed as other neurologic disorders.

Question: How many people are affected by cystinosis ?
Answer: Cystinosis affects approximately 1 in 100,000 to 200,000 newborns worldwide. The incidence is higher in the province of Brittany, France, where the disorder affects 1 in 26,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by mal de Meleda ?
Answer: Mal de Meleda is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. The disorder was first identified on the Croatian island of Mjlet (called Meleda in Italian) and has since been found in populations worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by familial hypobetalipoproteinemia ?
Answer: FHBL is estimated to occur in 1 in 1,000 to 3,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency ?
Answer: Guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency is a very rare disorder. About 80 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature. Of these, approximately one-third are of Portuguese origin.

Question: How many people are affected by 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency ?
Answer: This condition is detected in an estimated 1 in 36,000 newborns worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ?
Answer: The incidence of dominant multiple epiphyseal dysplasia is estimated to be at least 1 in 10,000 newborns. The incidence of recessive multiple epiphyseal dysplasia is unknown. Both forms of this disorder may actually be more common because some people with mild symptoms are never diagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by autosomal dominant partial epilepsy with auditory features ?
Answer: This condition appears to be uncommon, although its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets ?
Answer: X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets is the most common form of rickets that runs in families. It affects about 1 in 20,000 newborns. Each of the other forms of hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets has been identified in only a few families.

Question: How many people are affected by Glanzmann thrombasthenia ?
Answer: Glanzmann thrombasthenia is estimated to affect 1 in one million individuals worldwide, but may be more common in certain groups, including those of Romani ethnicity, particularly people within the French Manouche community.

Question: How many people are affected by neuroferritinopathy ?
Answer: The prevalence of neuroferritinopathy is unknown. Fewer than 100 individuals with this disorder have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by Diamond-Blackfan anemia ?
Answer: Diamond-Blackfan anemia affects approximately 5 to 7 per million liveborn infants worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by 1p36 deletion syndrome ?
Answer: 1p36 deletion syndrome is believed to affect between 1 in 5,000 and 1 in 10,000 newborns. However, this may be an underestimate because some affected individuals are likely never diagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by Crouzonodermoskeletal syndrome ?
Answer: Crouzonodermoskeletal syndrome is rare; this condition is seen in about 1 person per million.

Question: How many people are affected by osteoglophonic dysplasia ?
Answer: Osteoglophonic dysplasia is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. Only about 15 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Schimke immuno-osseous dysplasia ?
Answer: Schimke immuno-osseous dysplasia is a very rare condition. The prevalence in North America is estimated to be one in 1 million to 3 million people.

Question: How many people are affected by oculocutaneous albinism ?
Answer: Overall, an estimated 1 in 20,000 people worldwide are born with oculocutaneous albinism. The condition affects people in many ethnic groups and geographical regions. Types 1 and 2 are the most common forms of this condition; types 3 and 4 are less common. Type 2 occurs more frequently in African Americans, some Native American groups, and people from sub-Saharan Africa. Type 3, specifically rufous oculocutaneous albinism, has been described primarily in people from southern Africa. Studies suggest that type 4 occurs more frequently in the Japanese and Korean populations than in people from other parts of the world.

Question: How many people are affected by allergic asthma ?
Answer: Approximately 235 million people worldwide have asthma. In the United States, the condition affects an estimated 8 percent of the population. In nearly 90 percent of children and 50 percent of adults with asthma, the condition is classified as allergic asthma.

Question: How many people are affected by ovarian cancer ?
Answer: Ovarian cancer affects about 12 in 100,000 women per year.

Question: How many people are affected by multiple lentigines syndrome ?
Answer: Multiple lentigines syndrome is thought to be a rare condition; approximately 200 cases have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency ?
Answer: CAH due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency accounts for 5 to 8 percent of all cases of congenital adrenal hyperplasia. It is estimated that CAH due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency occurs in 1 in 100,000 to 200,000 newborns. This condition is more common in Moroccan Jews living in Israel, occurring in approximately 1 in 5,000 to 7,000 newborns. The classic form of CAH due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency appears to be much more common than the non-classic form.

Question: How many people are affected by adult polyglucosan body disease ?
Answer: Adult polyglucosan body disease is a rare condition; although its exact prevalence is unknown, at least 50 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by cerebral cavernous malformation ?
Answer: Cerebral cavernous malformations affect about 0.5 percent of the population worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by succinate-CoA ligase deficiency ?
Answer: Although the exact prevalence of succinate-CoA ligase deficiency is unknown, it appears to be very rare. This condition occurs more frequently among people from the Faroe Islands in the North Atlantic Ocean.

Question: How many people are affected by Cowden syndrome ?
Answer: Although the exact prevalence of Cowden syndrome is unknown, researchers estimate that it affects about 1 in 200,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by familial glucocorticoid deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of familial glucocorticoid deficiency is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by caudal regression syndrome ?
Answer: Caudal regression syndrome is estimated to occur in 1 to 2.5 per 100,000 newborns. This condition is much more common in infants born to mothers with diabetes when it affects an estimated 1 in 350 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by Mowat-Wilson syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Mowat-Wilson syndrome is unknown. More than 200 people with this condition have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by intranuclear rod myopathy ?
Answer: Intranuclear rod myopathy is a rare disorder that has been identified in only a small number of individuals. Its exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by craniofacial microsomia ?
Answer: Craniofacial microsomia has been estimated to occur in between 1 in 5,600 and 1 in 26,550 newborns. However, this range may be an underestimate because not all medical professionals agree on the criteria for diagnosis of this condition, and because mild cases may never come to medical attention. For reasons that are unclear, the disorder occurs about 50 percent more often in males than in females.

Question: How many people are affected by aromatase deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of aromatase deficiency is unknown; approximately 20 cases have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by cri-du-chat syndrome ?
Answer: Cri-du-chat syndrome occurs in an estimated 1 in 20,000 to 50,000 newborns. This condition is found in people of all ethnic backgrounds.

Question: How many people are affected by Schwartz-Jampel syndrome ?
Answer: Schwartz-Jampel syndrome appears to be a rare condition. About 150 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Meckel syndrome ?
Answer: Meckel syndrome affects 1 in 13,250 to 1 in 140,000 people worldwide. It is more common in certain populations; for example, the condition affects about 1 in 9,000 people of Finnish ancestry and about 1 in 3,000 people of Belgian ancestry.

Question: How many people are affected by celiac disease ?
Answer: Celiac disease is a common disorder. Its prevalence has been estimated at about 1 in 100 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Lesch-Nyhan syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Lesch-Nyhan syndrome is approximately 1 in 380,000 individuals. This condition occurs with a similar frequency in all populations.

Question: How many people are affected by dopa-responsive dystonia ?
Answer: Dopa-responsive dystonia is estimated to affect 1 per million people worldwide. However, the disorder is likely underdiagnosed because the condition may not be identified in people with mild symptoms, or it may be misdiagnosed in people who have symptoms similar to other movement disorders.

Question: How many people are affected by cutis laxa ?
Answer: Cutis laxa is a rare disorder. About 200 affected families worldwide have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by Bjrnstad syndrome ?
Answer: Bjrnstad syndrome is a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown. It has been found in populations worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by chordoma ?
Answer: Chordomas are rare, occurring in approximately 1 per million individuals each year. Chordomas comprise fewer than 1 percent of tumors affecting the brain and spinal cord.

Question: How many people are affected by juvenile Paget disease ?
Answer: Juvenile Paget disease is rare; about 50 affected individuals have been identified worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by anencephaly ?
Answer: Anencephaly is one of the most common types of neural tube defect, affecting about 1 in 1,000 pregnancies. However, most of these pregnancies end in miscarriage, so the prevalence of this condition in newborns is much lower. An estimated 1 in 10,000 infants in the United States is born with anencephaly.

Question: How many people are affected by Adams-Oliver syndrome ?
Answer: Adams-Oliver syndrome is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Jackson-Weiss syndrome ?
Answer: Jackson-Weiss syndrome is a rare genetic disorder; its incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by mucolipidosis II alpha/beta ?
Answer: Mucolipidosis II alpha/beta is a rare disorder, although its exact prevalence is unknown. It is estimated to occur in about 1 in 100,000 to 400,000 individuals worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by myoclonus-dystonia ?
Answer: The prevalence of myoclonus-dystonia is unknown. This condition has been described in people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by complete LCAT deficiency ?
Answer: Complete LCAT deficiency is a rare disorder. Approximately 70 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Peters plus syndrome ?
Answer: Peters plus syndrome is a rare disorder; its incidence is unknown. Fewer than 80 people with this condition have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Holt-Oram syndrome ?
Answer: Holt-Oram syndrome is estimated to affect 1 in 100,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by essential thrombocythemia ?
Answer: Essential thrombocythemia affects an estimated 1 to 24 per 1 million people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by familial isolated hyperparathyroidism ?
Answer: The prevalence of familial isolated hyperparathyroidism is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by polycystic kidney disease ?
Answer: Polycystic kidney disease is a fairly common genetic disorder. It affects about 500,000 people in the United States. The autosomal dominant form of the disease is much more common than the autosomal recessive form. Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease affects 1 in 500 to 1,000 people, while the autosomal recessive type occurs in an estimated 1 in 20,000 to 40,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by familial cylindromatosis ?
Answer: Familial cylindromatosis is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by acute promyelocytic leukemia ?
Answer: Acute promyelocytic leukemia accounts for about 10 percent of acute myeloid leukemia cases. Acute promyelocytic leukemia occurs in approximately 1 in 250,000 people in the United States.

Question: How many people are affected by Horner syndrome ?
Answer: About 1 in 6,250 babies are born with Horner syndrome. The incidence of Horner syndrome that appears later is unknown, but it is considered an uncommon disorder.

Question: How many people are affected by giant axonal neuropathy ?
Answer: Giant axonal neuropathy is a very rare disorder; the incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis ?
Answer: Familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis occurs in approximately 1 in 50,000 individuals worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by dopamine transporter deficiency syndrome ?
Answer: Dopamine transporter deficiency syndrome appears to be a rare disease; only about 20 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature. Researchers believe that the condition is probably underdiagnosed because its signs and symptoms overlap with cerebral palsy and other movement disorders.

Question: How many people are affected by globozoospermia ?
Answer: Globozoospermia is a rare condition that is estimated to affect 1 in 65,000 men. It is most common in North Africa, where it accounts for approximately 1 in 100 cases of male infertility.

Question: How many people are affected by recurrent hydatidiform mole ?
Answer: Hydatidiform moles occur in 1 in 600 to 1,000 pregnancies in western countries and are more common in developing countries. One to six percent of previously affected women will have a recurrent hydatidiform mole.

Question: How many people are affected by core binding factor acute myeloid leukemia ?
Answer: Acute myeloid leukemia occurs in approximately 3.5 per 100,000 individuals each year. CBF-AML accounts for 12 to 15 percent of acute myeloid leukemia cases in adults.

Question: How many people are affected by Gillespie syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Gillespie syndrome is unknown. Only a few dozen affected individuals have been described in the medical literature. It has been estimated that Gillespie syndrome accounts for about 2 percent of cases of aniridia.

Question: How many people are affected by pachyonychia congenita ?
Answer: Although the prevalence of pachyonychia congenita is unknown, it appears to be rare. There are probably several thousand people worldwide with this disorder.

Question: How many people are affected by lattice corneal dystrophy type II ?
Answer: Lattice corneal dystrophy type II is a rare condition; however, the prevalence is unknown. While this condition can be found in populations worldwide, it was first described in Finland and is more common there.

Question: How many people are affected by Nager syndrome ?
Answer: Nager syndrome is a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown. More than 75 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Meier-Gorlin syndrome ?
Answer: Meier-Gorlin syndrome is a rare condition; however, its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by proopiomelanocortin deficiency ?
Answer: POMC deficiency is a rare condition; approximately 50 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter ?
Answer: The prevalence of leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter is unknown. Although it is a rare disorder, it is believed to be one of the most common inherited diseases that affect the white matter.

Question: How many people are affected by capillary malformation-arteriovenous malformation syndrome ?
Answer: CM-AVM is thought to occur in at least 1 in 100,000 people of northern European origin. The prevalence of the condition in other populations is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by 6q24-related transient neonatal diabetes mellitus ?
Answer: Between 1 in 215,000 and 1 in 400,000 babies are born with diabetes mellitus. In about half of these babies, the diabetes is transient. Researchers estimate that approximately 70 percent of transient diabetes in newborns is caused by 6q24-related transient neonatal diabetes mellitus.

Question: How many people are affected by nonbullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma ?
Answer: NBCIE is estimated to affect 1 in 200,000 to 300,000 individuals in the United States. This condition is more common in Norway, where an estimated 1 in 90,000 people are affected.

Question: How many people are affected by type 1 diabetes ?
Answer: Type 1 diabetes occurs in 10 to 20 per 100,000 people per year in the United States. By age 18, approximately 1 in 300 people in the United States develop type 1 diabetes. The disorder occurs with similar frequencies in Europe, the United Kingdom, Canada, and New Zealand. Type 1 diabetes occurs much less frequently in Asia and South America, with reported incidences as low as 1 in 1 million per year. For unknown reasons, during the past 20 years the worldwide incidence of type 1 diabetes has been increasing by 2 to 5 percent each year.  Type 1 diabetes accounts for 5 to 10 percent of cases of diabetes worldwide. Most people with diabetes have type 2 diabetes, in which the body continues to produce insulin but becomes less able to use it.

Question: How many people are affected by campomelic dysplasia ?
Answer: The prevalence of campomelic dysplasia is uncertain; estimates range from 1 in 40,000 to 200,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by glycogen storage disease type 0 ?
Answer: The prevalence of GSD 0 is unknown; fewer than 10 people with the muscle type and fewer than 30 people with the liver type have been described in the scientific literature. Because some people with muscle GSD 0 die from sudden cardiac arrest early in life before a diagnosis is made and many with liver GSD 0 have mild signs and symptoms, it is thought that GSD 0 may be underdiagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital fiber-type disproportion ?
Answer: Congenital fiber-type disproportion is thought to be a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by type A insulin resistance syndrome ?
Answer: Type A insulin resistance syndrome is estimated to affect about 1 in 100,000 people worldwide. Because females have more health problems associated with the condition, it is diagnosed more often in females than in males.

Question: How many people are affected by long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: The incidence of LCHAD deficiency is unknown. One estimate, based on a Finnish population, indicates that 1 in 62,000 pregnancies is affected by this disorder. In the United States, the incidence is probably much lower.

Question: How many people are affected by optic atrophy type 1 ?
Answer: Optic atrophy type 1 is estimated to affect 1 in 50,000 people worldwide. This condition is more common in Denmark, where it affects approximately 1 in 10,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by geleophysic dysplasia ?
Answer: Geleophysic dysplasia is a rare disorder whose prevalence is unknown. More than 30 affected individuals have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type V ?
Answer: HSAN5 is very rare. Only a few people with the condition have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome ?
Answer: Cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome is a very rare condition whose incidence is unknown. Researchers estimate that 200 to 300 people worldwide have this condition.

Question: How many people are affected by UV-sensitive syndrome ?
Answer: UV-sensitive syndrome appears to be a rare condition; only a small number of affected individuals have been reported in the scientific literature. However, this condition may be underdiagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by PDGFRA-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia ?
Answer: PDGFRA-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia is a rare condition; however, the exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Tay-Sachs disease ?
Answer: Tay-Sachs disease is very rare in the general population. The genetic mutations that cause this disease are more common in people of Ashkenazi (eastern and central European) Jewish heritage than in those with other backgrounds. The mutations responsible for this disease are also more common in certain French-Canadian communities of Quebec, the Old Order Amish community in Pennsylvania, and the Cajun population of Louisiana.

Question: How many people are affected by Fryns syndrome ?
Answer: The worldwide incidence of Fryns syndrome is unknown. More than 50 affected individuals have been reported in the medical literature. Studies suggest that Fryns syndrome occurs in 1.3 to 10 percent of all cases of congenital diaphragmatic hernia.

Question: How many people are affected by malonyl-CoA decarboxylase deficiency ?
Answer: This condition is very rare; fewer than 30 cases have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by sick sinus syndrome ?
Answer: Sick sinus syndrome accounts for 1 in 600 patients with heart disease who are over age 65. The incidence of this condition increases with age.

Question: How many people are affected by GM3 synthase deficiency ?
Answer: GM3 synthase deficiency appears to be a rare condition. About 50 cases have been reported, mostly from Old Order Amish communities.

Question: How many people are affected by Myhre syndrome ?
Answer: Myhre syndrome is a rare disorder. Only about 30 cases have been documented in the medical literature. For reasons that are unknown, most affected individuals have been males.

Question: How many people are affected by ADCY5-related dyskinesia ?
Answer: The prevalence of ADCY5-related dyskinesia is unknown. At least 50 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Shwachman-Diamond syndrome ?
Answer: Researchers are not sure how common Shwachman-Diamond syndrome is. Several hundred cases have been reported in scientific studies.

Question: How many people are affected by essential tremor ?
Answer: Essential tremor is a common disorder, affecting up to 10 million people in the United States. Estimates of its prevalence vary widely because several other disorders, as well as other factors such as certain medications, can result in similar tremors. In addition, mild cases are often not brought to medical attention, or may not be detected in clinical exams that do not include the particular circumstances in which an individual's tremor occurs. Severe cases are often misdiagnosed as Parkinson disease.

Question: How many people are affected by spastic paraplegia type 7 ?
Answer: The prevalence of all hereditary spastic paraplegias combined is estimated to be 2 to 6 in 100,000 people worldwide. Spastic paraplegia type 7 likely accounts for only a small percentage of all spastic paraplegia cases.

Question: How many people are affected by Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy ?
Answer: Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophies together affect 1 in 3,500 to 5,000 newborn males worldwide. Between 400 and 600 boys in the United States are born with these conditions each year.

Question: How many people are affected by combined pituitary hormone deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of combined pituitary hormone deficiency is estimated to be 1 in 8,000 individuals worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome ?
Answer: Multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown. It is one of several conditions classified as mitochondrial disorders, which affect an estimated 1 in 5,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease ?
Answer: Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease is the most common inherited disorder that involves the peripheral nerves, affecting an estimated 150,000 people in the United States. It occurs in populations worldwide with a prevalence of about 1 in 2,500 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by hypophosphatasia ?
Answer: Severe forms of hypophosphatasia affect an estimated 1 in 100,000 newborns. Milder cases, such as those that appear in childhood or adulthood, probably occur more frequently.  Hypophosphatasia has been reported worldwide in people of various ethnic backgrounds. This condition appears to be most common in white populations. It is particularly frequent in a Mennonite population in Manitoba, Canada, where about 1 in 2,500 infants is born with severe features of the condition.

Question: How many people are affected by supravalvular aortic stenosis ?
Answer: SVAS occurs in 1 in 20,000 newborns worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by epidermolytic hyperkeratosis ?
Answer: Epidermolytic hyperkeratosis affects approximately 1 in 200,000 to 300,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by progressive familial heart block ?
Answer: The prevalence of progressive familial heart block is unknown. In the United States, about 1 in 5,000 individuals have complete heart block from any cause; worldwide, about 1 in 2,500 individuals have complete heart block.

Question: How many people are affected by fucosidosis ?
Answer: Fucosidosis is a rare condition; approximately 100 cases have been reported worldwide. This condition appears to be most prevalent in Italy, Cuba, and the southwestern United States.

Question: How many people are affected by Alzheimer disease ?
Answer: Alzheimer disease currently affects an estimated 2.4 million to 4.5 million Americans. Because the risk of developing Alzheimer disease increases with age and more people are living longer, the number of people with this disease is expected to increase significantly in coming decades.

Question: How many people are affected by centronuclear myopathy ?
Answer: Centronuclear myopathy is a rare condition; its exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by glutathione synthetase deficiency ?
Answer: Glutathione synthetase deficiency is very rare. This disorder has been described in more than 70 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Koolen-de Vries syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Koolen-de Vries syndrome is estimated to be 1 in 16,000. However, the underlying genetic cause is often not identified in people with intellectual disability, so this condition is likely underdiagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by Williams syndrome ?
Answer: Williams syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 7,500 to 10,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by juvenile primary osteoporosis ?
Answer: The prevalence of juvenile primary osteoporosis is unknown. Nearly 1 in 10 adults over age 50 have osteoporosis, but the condition is uncommon in children. Osteoporosis can occur at a young age as a feature of other conditions but rarely occurs without other signs and symptoms (primary osteoporosis).

Question: How many people are affected by acatalasemia ?
Answer: More than 100 cases of acatalasemia have been reported in the medical literature. Researchers estimate that the condition occurs in about 1 in 12,500 people in Japan, 1 in 20,000 people in Hungary, and 1 in 25,000 people in Switzerland. The prevalence of acatalasemia in other populations is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Kuskokwim syndrome ?
Answer: Kuskokwim syndrome is extremely rare. It affects a small number of people from the Yup'ik Eskimo population in southwest Alaska.

Question: How many people are affected by ankylosing spondylitis ?
Answer: Ankylosing spondylitis is part of a group of related diseases known as spondyloarthropathies. In the United States, spondyloarthropathies affect 3.5 to 13 per 1,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by renal tubular acidosis with deafness ?
Answer: Renal tubular acidosis with deafness is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia with immune deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of the X-linked recessive type of EDA-ID is estimated to be 1 in 250,000 individuals. Only a few cases of the autosomal dominant form have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by McLeod neuroacanthocytosis syndrome ?
Answer: McLeod neuroacanthocytosis syndrome is rare; approximately 150 cases have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Alagille syndrome ?
Answer: The estimated prevalence of Alagille syndrome is 1 in 70,000 newborns. This figure is based on diagnoses of liver disease in infants, and may be an underestimation because some people with Alagille syndrome do not develop liver disease during infancy.

Question: How many people are affected by Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome ?
Answer: Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome is likely a rare condition; approximately 75 cases have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by laryngo-onycho-cutaneous syndrome ?
Answer: LOC syndrome is a rare disorder that primarily affects families of Punjabi background from India and Pakistan, although the condition has also been reported in one family from Iran.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary sensory neuropathy type IA ?
Answer: Hereditary sensory neuropathy type IA is a rare condition; its prevalence is estimated to be 1 to 2 per 100,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by SYNGAP1-related intellectual disability ?
Answer: SYNGAP1-related intellectual disability is a relatively common form of cognitive impairment. It is estimated to account for 1 to 2 percent of intellectual disability cases.

Question: How many people are affected by hypomyelination and congenital cataract ?
Answer: The prevalence of hypomyelination and congenital cataract is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by ALG12-congenital disorder of glycosylation ?
Answer: ALG12-CDG is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown. Only a handful of affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus ?
Answer: Neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus is thought to be rare, although its exact incidence is unknown. The acquired form occurs much more frequently than the familial form.

Question: How many people are affected by Parkes Weber syndrome ?
Answer: Parkes Weber syndrome is a rare condition; its exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by 5q minus syndrome ?
Answer: MDS affects nearly 1 in 20,000 people in the United States. It is thought that 5q- syndrome accounts for 15 percent of MDS cases. Unlike other forms of MDS, which occur more frequently in men than women, 5q- syndrome is more than twice as common in women.

Question: How many people are affected by Lafora progressive myoclonus epilepsy ?
Answer: The prevalence of Lafora progressive myoclonus epilepsy is unknown. Although the condition occurs worldwide, it appears to be most common in Mediterranean countries (including Spain, France, and Italy), parts of Central Asia, India, Pakistan, North Africa, and the Middle East.

Question: How many people are affected by ring chromosome 20 syndrome ?
Answer: Ring chromosome 20 syndrome appears to be a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown. More than 60 affected individuals have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Char syndrome ?
Answer: Char syndrome is rare, although its exact incidence is unknown. Only a few families with this condition have been identified worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by fragile XE syndrome ?
Answer: Fragile XE syndrome is estimated to affect 1 in 25,000 to 100,000 newborn males. Only a small number of affected females have been described in the medical literature. Because mildly affected individuals may never be diagnosed, it is thought that the condition may be more common than reported.

Question: How many people are affected by Sotos syndrome ?
Answer: Sotos syndrome is reported to occur in 1 in 10,000 to 14,000 newborns. Because many of the features of Sotos syndrome can be attributed to other conditions, many cases of this disorder are likely not properly diagnosed, so the true incidence may be closer to 1 in 5,000.

Question: How many people are affected by infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy ?
Answer: Infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy is a very rare disorder. Its specific incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by tibial muscular dystrophy ?
Answer: Tibial muscular dystrophy is most common in Finland, where it is estimated to affect at least 10 per 100,000 people. This condition has also been found in people of Finnish descent living in other countries.  Additionally, tibial muscular dystrophy has been identified in several European families without Finnish ancestry.

Question: How many people are affected by familial pityriasis rubra pilaris ?
Answer: Familial pityriasis rubra pilaris is a rare condition. Its incidence is unknown, although the familial form appears to be the least common type of pityriasis rubra pilaris.

Question: How many people are affected by hypochromic microcytic anemia with iron overload ?
Answer: Hypochromic microcytic anemia with iron overload is likely a rare disorder; at least five affected families have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital cataracts, facial dysmorphism, and neuropathy ?
Answer: The prevalence of CCFDN is unknown. The disorder has been identified in about 150 individuals of Romani ethnicity. Thus far, no affected individuals have been observed outside this community.

Question: How many people are affected by Costeff syndrome ?
Answer: Costeff syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 10,000 individuals in the Iraqi Jewish population, in which at least 40 cases have been described. Outside this population, only a few affected individuals have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by thiamine-responsive megaloblastic anemia syndrome ?
Answer: Thiamine-responsive megaloblastic anemia syndrome has been reported in approximately 30 families worldwide. Its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Sheldon-Hall syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Sheldon-Hall syndrome is unknown; however, it is thought to be the most common type of distal arthrogryposis. About 100 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by cholesteryl ester storage disease ?
Answer: Cholesteryl ester storage disease appears to be a rare disorder. About 50 individuals affected by this condition have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital diaphragmatic hernia ?
Answer: Congenital diaphragmatic hernia affects approximately 1 in 2,500 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by common variable immune deficiency ?
Answer: CVID is estimated to affect 1 in 25,000 to 1 in 50,000 people worldwide, although the prevalence can vary across different populations.

Question: How many people are affected by juvenile hyaline fibromatosis ?
Answer: The prevalence of juvenile hyaline fibromatosis is unknown. About 70 people with this disorder have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by infantile-onset ascending hereditary spastic paralysis ?
Answer: Infantile-onset ascending hereditary spastic paralysis is a rare disorder, with at least 30 cases reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism-17 ?
Answer: The worldwide prevalence of FTDP-17 is unknown. In the Netherlands, where the disease prevalence has been studied, it is estimated to affect 1 in 1 million people. However, the disorder is likely underdiagnosed, so it may actually be more common than this.  FTDP-17 probably accounts for a small percentage of all cases of frontotemporal dementia.

Question: How many people are affected by autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay ?
Answer: The incidence of ARSACS in the Charlevoix-Saguenay region of Quebec is estimated to be 1 in 1,500 to 2,000 individuals. Outside of Quebec, ARSACS is rare, but the incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by acromicric dysplasia ?
Answer: Acromicric dysplasia is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by chorea-acanthocytosis ?
Answer: It is estimated that 500 to 1,000 people worldwide have chorea-acanthocytosis.

Question: How many people are affected by cranioectodermal dysplasia ?
Answer: Cranioectodermal dysplasia is a rare condition with an unknown prevalence. Approximately 40 cases of this condition have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked immunodeficiency with magnesium defect, Epstein-Barr virus infection, and neoplasia ?
Answer: The prevalence of XMEN is unknown. Only a few affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by aminoacylase 1 deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of aminoacylase 1 deficiency is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by mannose-binding lectin deficiency ?
Answer: Mannose-binding lectin deficiency is thought to affect approximately 5 to 10 percent of people worldwide; however, many affected individuals have no signs or symptoms related to low mannose-binding lectin levels. The condition is more common in certain populations, such as sub-Saharan Africans.

Question: How many people are affected by infantile systemic hyalinosis ?
Answer: The prevalence of infantile systemic hyalinosis is unknown. Fewer than 20 people with this disorder have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by polycythemia vera ?
Answer: The prevalence of polycythemia vera varies worldwide. The condition affects an estimated 44 to 57 per 100,000 individuals in the United States. For unknown reasons, men develop polycythemia vera more frequently than women.

Question: How many people are affected by autosomal recessive congenital methemoglobinemia ?
Answer: The incidence of autosomal recessive congenital methemoglobinemia is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by hystrix-like ichthyosis with deafness ?
Answer: HID is a rare disorder. Its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by 48,XXYY syndrome ?
Answer: 48,XXYY syndrome is estimated to affect 1 in 18,000 to 50,000 males.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia tarda ?
Answer: The prevalence of X-linked spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia tarda is estimated to be 1 in 150,000 to 200,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Fuchs endothelial dystrophy ?
Answer: The late-onset form of Fuchs endothelial dystrophy is a common condition, affecting approximately 4 percent of people over the age of 40. The early-onset variant of Fuchs endothelial dystrophy is rare, although the exact prevalence is unknown.  For reasons that are unclear, women are affected with Fuchs endothelial dystrophy somewhat more frequently than men.

Question: How many people are affected by Weyers acrofacial dysostosis ?
Answer: Weyers acrofacial dysostosis appears to be a rare disorder. Only a few affected families have been identified worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by phenylketonuria ?
Answer: The occurrence of PKU varies among ethnic groups and geographic regions worldwide. In the United States, PKU occurs in 1 in 10,000 to 15,000 newborns. Most cases of PKU are detected shortly after birth by newborn screening, and treatment is started promptly. As a result, the severe signs and symptoms of classic PKU are rarely seen.

Question: How many people are affected by multiple sclerosis ?
Answer: An estimated 1.1 to 2.5 million people worldwide have multiple sclerosis. Although the reason is unclear, this condition is more common in regions that are farther away from the equator. In Canada, parts of the northern United States, western and northern Europe, Russia, and southeastern Australia, the condition affects approximately 1 in 2,000 to 2,400 people. It is less common closer to the equator, such as in Asia, sub-Saharan Africa, and parts of South America, where about 1 in 20,000 people are affected. For unknown reasons, most forms of multiple sclerosis affect women twice as often as men; however, women and men are equally affected by primary progressive MS.

Question: How many people are affected by retinitis pigmentosa ?
Answer: Retinitis pigmentosa is one of the most common inherited diseases of the retina (retinopathies). It is estimated to affect 1 in 3,500 to 1 in 4,000 people in the United States and Europe.

Question: How many people are affected by Stormorken syndrome ?
Answer: Stormorken syndrome is a rare disorder. Approximately a dozen cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Down syndrome ?
Answer: Down syndrome occurs in about 1 in 800 newborns. About 5,300 babies with Down syndrome are born in the United States each year, and an estimated 250,000 people in this country have the condition. Although women of any age can have a child with Down syndrome, the chance of having a child with this condition increases as a woman gets older.

Question: How many people are affected by desmosterolosis ?
Answer: The prevalence of desmosterolosis is unknown; at least 10 affected individuals have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Kufs disease ?
Answer: Collectively, all forms of NCL affect an estimated 1 in 100,000 individuals worldwide. NCLs are more common in Finland, where approximately 1 in 12,500 individuals have the condition. Kufs disease is thought to represent 1.3 to 10 percent of all NCLs.

Question: How many people are affected by COG5-congenital disorder of glycosylation ?
Answer: COG5-CDG is a very rare disorder; fewer than 10 cases have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by nephronophthisis ?
Answer: Nephronophthisis is found in populations worldwide. It occurs in an estimated 1 in 50,000 newborns in Canada, 1 in 100,000 in Finland, and 1 in 922,000 in the United States. Its incidence in other populations is unknown. Nephronophthisis is the most common genetic cause of ESRD in children and young adults.

Question: How many people are affected by familial adenomatous polyposis ?
Answer: The reported incidence of familial adenomatous polyposis varies from 1 in 7,000 to 1 in 22,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency ?
Answer: CPT II deficiency is a rare disorder. The lethal neonatal form has been described in at least 18 families, while the severe infantile hepatocardiomuscular form has been identified in approximately 30 families. The myopathic form occurs most frequently, with more than 300 reported cases.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked thrombocytopenia ?
Answer: The estimated incidence of X-linked thrombocytopenia is between 1 and 10 per million males worldwide; this condition is rarer among females.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary cerebral amyloid angiopathy ?
Answer: The prevalence of hereditary cerebral amyloid angiopathy is unknown. The Dutch type is the most common, with over 200 affected individuals reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by glycogen storage disease type III ?
Answer: The incidence of GSDIII in the United States is 1 in 100,000 individuals. This condition is seen more frequently in people of North African Jewish ancestry; in this population, 1 in 5,400 individuals are estimated to be affected.  GSDIIIa is the most common form of GSDIII, accounting for about 85 percent of all cases. GSDIIIb accounts for about 15 percent of cases. GSD types IIIc and IIId are very rare, and their signs and symptoms are poorly defined. Only a small number of affected individuals have been suspected to have GSD types IIIc and IIId.

Question: How many people are affected by van der Woude syndrome ?
Answer: Van der Woude syndrome is believed to occur in 1 in 35,000 to 1 in 100,000 people, based on data from Europe and Asia. Van der Woude syndrome is the most common cause of cleft lip and palate resulting from variations in a single gene, and this condition accounts for approximately 1 in 50 such cases.

Question: How many people are affected by benign familial neonatal seizures ?
Answer: Benign familial neonatal seizures occurs in approximately 1 in 100,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy ?
Answer: X-linked Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy is the most common form of this condition, affecting an estimated 1 in 100,000 people. The autosomal recessive type of this disorder appears to be very rare; only a few cases have been reported worldwide. The incidence of the autosomal dominant form is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by 16p11.2 deletion syndrome ?
Answer: Most people tested for the 16p11.2 deletion have come to medical attention as a result of developmental delay or autistic behaviors. Other individuals with the 16p11.2 deletion have no associated health or behavioral problems, and so the deletion may never be detected. For this reason, the prevalence of this deletion in the general population is difficult to determine but has been estimated at approximately 3 in 10,000.

Question: How many people are affected by early-onset glaucoma ?
Answer: Primary congenital glaucoma affects approximately 1 in 10,000 people. Its frequency is higher in the Middle East. Juvenile open-angle glaucoma affects about 1 in 50,000 people. Primary open-angle glaucoma is much more common after the age of 40, affecting about 1 percent of the population worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: VLCAD deficiency is estimated to affect 1 in 40,000 to 120,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by familial HDL deficiency ?
Answer: Familial HDL deficiency is a rare disorder, although the prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by intrauterine growth restriction, metaphyseal dysplasia, adrenal hypoplasia congenita, and genital anomalies ?
Answer: IMAGe syndrome is very rare, with only about 20 cases reported in the medical literature. The condition has been diagnosed more often in males than in females, probably because females do not have associated genital abnormalities.

Question: How many people are affected by distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type II ?
Answer: The prevalence of distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type II is unknown. At least 25 affected families have been identified worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by primary hyperoxaluria ?
Answer: Primary hyperoxaluria is estimated to affect 1 in 58,000 individuals worldwide. Type 1 is the most common form, accounting for approximately 80 percent of cases. Types 2 and 3 each account for about 10 percent of cases.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary angiopathy with nephropathy, aneurysms, and muscle cramps syndrome ?
Answer: HANAC syndrome is a rare condition, although the exact prevalence is unknown. At least six affected families have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by African iron overload ?
Answer: African iron overload is common in rural areas of central and southern Africa; up to 10 percent of the population in these regions may be affected. Men seem to be affected more often than women, possibly due to some combination of differences in dietary iron consumption and gender differences in the processing of iron.  The prevalence of increased iron stores in people of African descent in other parts of the world is unknown; however, these individuals may be at higher risk of developing mildly increased iron stores than are people of European background.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary multiple osteochondromas ?
Answer: The incidence of hereditary multiple osteochondromas is estimated to be 1 in 50,000 individuals. This condition occurs more frequently in some isolated populations: the incidence is approximately 1 in 1,000 in the Chamorro population of Guam and 1 in 77 in the Ojibway Indian population of Manitoba, Canada.

Question: How many people are affected by Partington syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Partington syndrome is unknown. About 20 cases have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital deafness with labyrinthine aplasia, microtia, and microdontia ?
Answer: LAMM syndrome is a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown. Approximately a dozen affected families have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by myosin storage myopathy ?
Answer: Myosin storage myopathy is a rare condition. Its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by citrullinemia ?
Answer: Type I citrullinemia is the most common form of the disorder, affecting about 1 in 57,000 people worldwide. Type II citrullinemia is found primarily in the Japanese population, where it occurs in an estimated 1 in 100,000 to 230,000 individuals. Type II also has been reported in other populations, including people from East Asia and the Middle East.

Question: How many people are affected by ophthalmo-acromelic syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of ophthalmo-acromelic syndrome is not known; approximately 35 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by spastic paraplegia type 2 ?
Answer: The prevalence of all hereditary spastic paraplegias combined is estimated to be 2 to 6 in 100,000 people worldwide. Spastic paraplegia type 2 likely accounts for only a small percentage of all spastic paraplegia cases.

Question: How many people are affected by 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria ?
Answer: 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare disorder. D-2-HGA and L-2-HGA have each been reported to affect fewer than 150 individuals worldwide. Combined D,L-2-HGA appears to be even rarer, with only about a dozen reported cases.

Question: How many people are affected by Robinow syndrome ?
Answer: Both the autosomal recessive and autosomal dominant forms of Robinow syndrome are rare.  Fewer than 200 people with autosomal recessive Robinow syndrome have been described in the medical literature. This form of the condition has been identified in families from several countries, including Turkey, Oman, Pakistan, and Brazil.  Autosomal dominant Robinow syndrome has been diagnosed in fewer than 50 families; about 10 of these families have had the osteosclerotic form.

Question: How many people are affected by Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome is unknown, although it appears to be rare. Several dozen cases have been reported in the medical literature. Researchers suspect that the disorder is underdiagnosed because its signs and symptoms vary and some of them are subtle.

Question: How many people are affected by aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase deficiency ?
Answer: AADC deficiency is a rare disorder. Only about 100 people with this condition have been described in the medical literature worldwide; about 20 percent of these individuals are from Taiwan.

Question: How many people are affected by tubular aggregate myopathy ?
Answer: Tubular aggregate myopathy is a rare disorder. Its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by arginine:glycine amidinotransferase deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of arginine:glycine amidinotransferase deficiency is unknown. The disorder has been identified in only a few families.

Question: How many people are affected by Tangier disease ?
Answer: Tangier disease is a rare disorder with approximately 100 cases identified worldwide. More cases are likely undiagnosed. This condition is named after an island off the coast of Virginia where the first affected individuals were identified.

Question: How many people are affected by prekallikrein deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of prekallikrein deficiency is unknown. Approximately 80 affected individuals in about 30 families have been described in the medical literature. Because prekallikrein deficiency usually does not cause any symptoms, researchers suspect that most people with the condition are never diagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital generalized lipodystrophy ?
Answer: Congenital generalized lipodystrophy has an estimated prevalence of 1 in 10 million people worldwide. Between 300 and 500 people with the condition have been described in the medical literature. Although this condition has been reported in populations around the world, it appears to be more common in certain regions of Lebanon and Brazil.

Question: How many people are affected by myoclonic epilepsy with ragged-red fibers ?
Answer: MERRF is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown. MERRF is part of a group of conditions known as mitochondrial disorders, which affect an estimated 1 in 5,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by multiminicore disease ?
Answer: Multiminicore disease is thought to be a rare disorder, although its incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by episodic ataxia ?
Answer: Episodic ataxia is uncommon, affecting less than 1 in 100,000 people. Only types 1 and 2 have been identified in more than one family, and type 2 is by far the most common form of the condition.

Question: How many people are affected by pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: Pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency is believed to be a rare condition; however, its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by phosphoglycerate mutase deficiency ?
Answer: Phosphoglycerate mutase deficiency is a rare condition; about 15 affected people have been reported in the medical literature. Most affected individuals have been African American.

Question: How many people are affected by Lenz microphthalmia syndrome ?
Answer: Lenz microphthalmia syndrome is a very rare condition; its incidence is unknown. It has been identified in only a few families worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Prader-Willi syndrome ?
Answer: Prader-Willi syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 10,000 to 30,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Parkinson disease ?
Answer: Parkinson disease affects more than 1 million people in North America and more than 4 million people worldwide. In the United States, Parkinson disease occurs in approximately 13 per 100,000 people, and about 60,000 new cases are identified each year.  The late-onset form is the most common type of Parkinson disease, and the risk of developing this condition increases with age. Because more people are living longer, the number of people with this disease is expected to increase in coming decades.

Question: How many people are affected by alpha thalassemia X-linked intellectual disability syndrome ?
Answer: Alpha thalassemia X-linked intellectual disability syndrome appears to be a rare condition, although its exact prevalence is unknown. More than 200 affected individuals have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome ?
Answer: The incidence of atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome is estimated to be 1 in 500,000 people per year in the United States. The atypical form is probably about 10 times less common than the typical form.

Question: How many people are affected by ALG1-congenital disorder of glycosylation ?
Answer: ALG1-CDG appears to be a rare disorder; fewer than 30 affected individuals have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by intestinal pseudo-obstruction ?
Answer: Primary intestinal pseudo-obstruction is a rare disorder. Its prevalence is unknown. The prevalence of secondary intestinal pseudo-obstruction is also unknown, but it is believed to be more common than the primary form.

Question: How many people are affected by autosomal recessive axonal neuropathy with neuromyotonia ?
Answer: Autosomal recessive axonal neuropathy with neuromyotonia is a rare form of inherited peripheral neuropathy. This group of conditions affects an estimated 1 in 2,500 people. The prevalence of autosomal recessive axonal neuropathy with neuromyotonia is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by ataxia-telangiectasia ?
Answer: Ataxia-telangiectasia occurs in 1 in 40,000 to 100,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by choroideremia ?
Answer: The prevalence of choroideremia is estimated to be 1 in 50,000 to 100,000 people. However, it is likely that this condition is underdiagnosed because of its similarities to other eye disorders. Choroideremia is thought to account for approximately 4 percent of all blindness.

Question: How many people are affected by pulmonary veno-occlusive disease ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of PVOD is unknown. Many cases are likely misdiagnosed as idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension, which is increased blood pressure in the pulmonary arteries without a known cause. Research suggests that 5 to 25 percent of people diagnosed with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension have PVOD. Based on these numbers, PVOD is thought to affect an estimated 1 to 2 per 10 million people.

Question: How many people are affected by 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: The exact incidence of 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency is unknown; it has been reported in only a small number of people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by distal arthrogryposis type 1 ?
Answer: Distal arthrogryposis type 1 affects an estimated 1 in 10,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Saethre-Chotzen syndrome ?
Answer: Saethre-Chotzen syndrome has an estimated prevalence of 1 in 25,000 to 50,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by mucolipidosis III gamma ?
Answer: Mucolipidosis III gamma is a rare disorder, although its exact prevalence is unknown. It is estimated to occur in about 1 in 100,000 to 400,000 individuals worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by neonatal onset multisystem inflammatory disease ?
Answer: NOMID is a very rare disorder; approximately 100 affected individuals have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Ewing sarcoma ?
Answer: Approximately 3 per 1 million children each year are diagnosed with a Ewing sarcoma. It is estimated that, in the United States, 250 children are diagnosed with one of these types of tumor each year. Ewing sarcoma accounts for about 1.5 percent of all childhood cancers, and it is the second most common type of bone tumor in children (the most common type of bone cancer is called osteosarcoma).

Question: How many people are affected by otopalatodigital syndrome type 1 ?
Answer: Otopalatodigital syndrome type 1 is a rare disorder, affecting fewer than 1 in every 100,000 individuals. Its specific incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by autoimmune Addison disease ?
Answer: Addison disease affects approximately 11 to 14 in 100,000 people of European descent. The autoimmune form of the disorder is the most common form in developed countries, accounting for up to 90 percent of cases.

Question: How many people are affected by Gorlin syndrome ?
Answer: Gorlin syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 31,000 people. While more than 1 million new cases of basal cell carcinoma are diagnosed each year in the United States, fewer than 1 percent of these skin cancers are related to Gorlin syndrome.

Question: How many people are affected by familial hemiplegic migraine ?
Answer: The worldwide prevalence of familial hemiplegic migraine is unknown. Studies suggest that in Denmark about 1 in 10,000 people have hemiplegic migraine and that the condition occurs equally in families with multiple affected individuals (familial hemiplegic migraine) and in individuals with no family history of the condition (sporadic hemiplegic migraine). Like other forms of migraine, familial hemiplegic migraine affects females more often than males.

Question: How many people are affected by protein S deficiency ?
Answer: Mild protein S deficiency is estimated to occur in approximately 1 in 500 individuals. Severe protein S deficiency is rare; however, its exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by narcolepsy ?
Answer: Narcolepsy affects about 1 in 2,000 people in the United States and Western Europe. However, the disorder is likely underdiagnosed, particularly in people with mild symptoms. Worldwide, narcolepsy appears to be most common in Japan, where it affects an estimated 1 in 600 people.

Question: How many people are affected by Troyer syndrome ?
Answer: About 20 cases of Troyer syndrome have been reported in the Old Order Amish population of Ohio. It has not been found outside this population.

Question: How many people are affected by microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type II ?
Answer: MOPDII appears to be a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by genitopatellar syndrome ?
Answer: Genitopatellar syndrome is estimated to occur in fewer than 1 per million people. At least 18 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ?
Answer: About 5,000 people in the United States are diagnosed with ALS each year. Worldwide, this disorder occurs in 2 to 5 per 100,000 individuals. Only a small percentage of cases have a known genetic cause.  Among the Chamorro people of Guam and people from the Kii Peninsula of Japan, ALS-PDC can be 100 times more frequent than ALS is in other populations. ALS-PDC has not been reported outside of these populations.

Question: How many people are affected by giant congenital melanocytic nevus ?
Answer: Giant congenital melanocytic nevus occurs in approximately 1 in 20,000 newborns worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by cartilage-hair hypoplasia ?
Answer: Cartilage-hair hypoplasia occurs most often in the Old Order Amish population, where it affects about 1 in 1,300 newborns. In people of Finnish descent, its incidence is approximately 1 in 20,000. Outside of these populations, the condition is rare, and its specific incidence is not known. It has been reported in individuals of European and Japanese descent.

Question: How many people are affected by Buschke-Ollendorff syndrome ?
Answer: Buschke-Ollendorff syndrome has an estimated incidence of 1 in 20,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by granulomatosis with polyangiitis ?
Answer: GPA is a rare disorder that affects an estimated 3 in 100,000 people in the United States.

Question: How many people are affected by SLC4A1-associated distal renal tubular acidosis ?
Answer: The prevalence of SLC4A1-associated distal renal tubular acidosis is unknown. The condition is most common in Southeast Asia, especially Thailand.

Question: How many people are affected by infantile-onset spinocerebellar ataxia ?
Answer: More than 20 individuals with IOSCA have been identified in Finland. A few individuals with similar symptoms have been reported elsewhere in Europe.

Question: How many people are affected by androgenetic alopecia ?
Answer: Androgenetic alopecia is a frequent cause of hair loss in both men and women. This form of hair loss affects an estimated 50 million men and 30 million women in the United States. Androgenetic alopecia can start as early as a person's teens and risk increases with age; more than 50 percent of men over age 50 have some degree of hair loss. In women, hair loss is most likely after menopause.

Question: How many people are affected by adolescent idiopathic scoliosis ?
Answer: Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis is the most common spinal abnormality in children. It affects an estimated 2 to 3 percent of children in the U.S.

Question: How many people are affected by polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy ?
Answer: PLOSL is a very rare condition. It was first reported in the Finnish population, where it has an estimated prevalence of 1 to 2 per million people. This condition has also been diagnosed in more than 100 people in the Japanese population. Although affected individuals have been reported worldwide, PLOSL appears to be less common in other countries.

Question: How many people are affected by aromatase excess syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of aromatase excess syndrome is unknown; more than 20 cases have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by juvenile primary lateral sclerosis ?
Answer: Juvenile primary lateral sclerosis is a rare disorder, with few reported cases.

Question: How many people are affected by myasthenia gravis ?
Answer: Myasthenia gravis affects about 20 per 100,000 people worldwide. The prevalence has been increasing in recent decades, which likely results from earlier diagnosis and better treatments leading to longer lifespans for affected individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by familial isolated pituitary adenoma ?
Answer: Pituitary adenomas, including sporadic tumors, are relatively common; they are identified in an estimated 1 in 1,000 people. FIPA, though, is quite rare, accounting for approximately 2 percent of pituitary adenomas. More than 200 families with FIPA have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by dopamine beta-hydroxylase deficiency ?
Answer: Dopamine -hydroxylase deficiency is a very rare disorder. Fewer than 20 affected individuals, all of Western European descent, have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by holocarboxylase synthetase deficiency ?
Answer: The exact incidence of this condition is unknown, but it is estimated to affect 1 in 87,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by multiple familial trichoepithelioma ?
Answer: Multiple familial trichoepithelioma is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by myoclonic epilepsy myopathy sensory ataxia ?
Answer: The prevalence of myoclonic epilepsy myopathy sensory ataxia is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Salih myopathy ?
Answer: Salih myopathy appears to be a rare disorder, although its prevalence is unknown. It has been reported in a small number of families of Moroccan and Sudanese descent.

Question: How many people are affected by keratoderma with woolly hair ?
Answer: Keratoderma with woolly hair is rare; its prevalence worldwide is unknown.  Type I (Naxos disease) was first described in families from the Greek island of Naxos. Since then, affected families have been found in other Greek islands, Turkey, and the Middle East. This form of the condition may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people from the Greek islands.  Type II (Carvajal syndrome), type III, and type IV have each been identified in only a small number of families worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by progressive osseous heteroplasia ?
Answer: Progressive osseous heteroplasia is a rare condition. Its exact incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Miller-Dieker syndrome ?
Answer: Miller-Dieker syndrome appears to be a rare disorder, although its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis ?
Answer: CIPA is a rare condition; however, the prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by hypochondrogenesis ?
Answer: Hypochondrogenesis and achondrogenesis, type 2 (a similar skeletal disorder) together affect 1 in 40,000 to 60,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by Krabbe disease ?
Answer: In the United States, Krabbe disease affects about 1 in 100,000 individuals. A higher incidence (6 cases per 1,000 people) has been reported in a few isolated communities in Israel.

Question: How many people are affected by septo-optic dysplasia ?
Answer: Septo-optic dysplasia has a reported incidence of 1 in 10,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by spondylothoracic dysostosis ?
Answer: Spondylothoracic dysostosis affects about one in 200,000 people worldwide. However, it is much more common in people of Puerto Rican ancestry, affecting approximately one in 12,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by familial osteochondritis dissecans ?
Answer: Familial osteochondritis dissecans is a rare condition, although the prevalence is unknown. Sporadic osteochondritis dissecans is more common; it is estimated to occur in the knee in 15 to 29 per 100,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by sensorineural deafness and male infertility ?
Answer: The prevalence of sensorineural deafness and male infertility is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Unverricht-Lundborg disease ?
Answer: Progressive myoclonus epilepsy is a rare condition. Unverricht-Lundborg disease is believed to be the most common cause of this type of epilepsy, but its worldwide prevalence is unknown. Unverricht-Lundborg disease occurs most frequently in Finland, where approximately 4 in 100,000 people are affected.

Question: How many people are affected by Bietti crystalline dystrophy ?
Answer: Bietti crystalline dystrophy has been estimated to occur in 1 in 67,000 people. It is more common in people of East Asian descent, especially those of Chinese and Japanese background. Researchers suggest that Bietti crystalline dystrophy may be underdiagnosed because its symptoms are similar to those of other eye disorders that progressively damage the retina.

Question: How many people are affected by Pallister-Killian mosaic syndrome ?
Answer: Pallister-Killian mosaic syndrome appears to be a rare condition, although its exact prevalence is unknown. This disorder may be underdiagnosed because it can be difficult to detect in people with mild signs and symptoms. As a result, most diagnoses are made in children with more severe features of the disorder. More than 150 people with Pallister-Killian mosaic syndrome have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by central core disease ?
Answer: Central core disease is probably an uncommon condition, although its incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Naegeli-Franceschetti-Jadassohn syndrome/dermatopathia pigmentosa reticularis ?
Answer: NFJS/DPR is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown. Only a few affected families have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Fanconi anemia ?
Answer: Fanconi anemia occurs in 1 in 160,000 individuals worldwide. This condition is more common among people of Ashkenazi Jewish descent, the Roma population of Spain, and black South Africans.

Question: How many people are affected by 18q deletion syndrome ?
Answer: 18q deletion syndrome occurs in an estimated 1 in 40,000 newborns. This condition is found in people of all ethnic backgrounds.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy ?
Answer: The prevalence of X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy is 1 in 20,000 to 50,000 individuals worldwide. This condition occurs with a similar frequency in all populations.

Question: How many people are affected by familial restrictive cardiomyopathy ?
Answer: The prevalence of familial restrictive cardiomyopathy is unknown. Although cardiomyopathy is a relatively common condition, restrictive cardiomyopathy, in which relaxation of the heart muscle is impaired, is the least common type. Some other forms of cardiomyopathy involve a weak or enlarged heart muscle with impaired contraction. In the United States and in Europe, restrictive cardiomyopathy accounts for less than five percent of all cardiomyopathies. The proportion of restrictive cardiomyopathy that runs in families is not known.

Question: How many people are affected by nail-patella syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of nail-patella syndrome is estimated to be 1 in 50,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by Fraser syndrome ?
Answer: Fraser syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 200,000 newborns. The condition occurs in approximately 1 in 10,000 fetuses that do not survive to birth.

Question: How many people are affected by Mayer-Rokitansky-Kster-Hauser syndrome ?
Answer: MRKH syndrome affects approximately 1 in 4,500 newborn girls.

Question: How many people are affected by Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome ?
Answer: Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome has an estimated prevalence of 1 in 200,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by spondylocarpotarsal synostosis syndrome ?
Answer: Spondylocarpotarsal synostosis syndrome is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. At least 25 affected individuals have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by nonsyndromic paraganglioma ?
Answer: It is estimated that the prevalence of pheochromocytoma is 1 in 500,000 people, and the prevalence of other paragangliomas is 1 in 1 million people. These statistics include syndromic and nonsyndromic paraganglioma and pheochromocytoma.

Question: How many people are affected by hypomagnesemia with secondary hypocalcemia ?
Answer: Hypomagnesemia with secondary hypocalcemia is thought to be a rare condition, but its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by tetrasomy 18p ?
Answer: Tetrasomy 18p is a rare disorder. It is known to affect about 250 families worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 ?
Answer: The prevalence of SCA3 is unknown. This condition is thought to be the most common type of spinocerebellar ataxia; however, all types of spinocerebellar ataxia are relatively rare.

Question: How many people are affected by inherited thyroxine-binding globulin deficiency ?
Answer: The complete form of inherited thyroxine-binding globulin deficiency, TBG-CD, affects about 1 in 15,000 newborns worldwide. The partial form, TBG-PD, affects about 1 in 4,000 newborns. These conditions appear to be more common in the Australian Aborigine population and in the Bedouin population of southern Israel.

Question: How many people are affected by lysinuric protein intolerance ?
Answer: Lysinuric protein intolerance is estimated to occur in 1 in 60,000 newborns in Finland and 1 in 57,000 newborns in Japan. Outside these populations this condition occurs less frequently, but the exact incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Marfan syndrome ?
Answer: The incidence of Marfan syndrome is approximately 1 in 5,000 worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ?
Answer: Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis has an estimated prevalence of 13 to 20 per 100,000 people worldwide. About 100,000 people are affected in the United States, and 30,000 to 40,000 new cases are diagnosed each year.  Familial pulmonary fibrosis is less common than the sporadic form of the disease. Only a small percentage of cases of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis appear to run in families.

Question: How many people are affected by Blau syndrome ?
Answer: Although Blau syndrome appears to be uncommon, its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by McKusick-Kaufman syndrome ?
Answer: This condition was first described in the Old Order Amish population, where it affects an estimated 1 in 10,000 people. The incidence of McKusick-Kaufman syndrome in non-Amish populations is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Caffey disease ?
Answer: Caffey disease has been estimated to occur in approximately 3 per 1,000 infants worldwide. A few hundred cases have been described in the medical literature. Researchers believe this condition is probably underdiagnosed because it usually goes away by itself in early childhood.

Question: How many people are affected by argininosuccinic aciduria ?
Answer: Argininosuccinic aciduria occurs in approximately 1 in 70,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by familial dysautonomia ?
Answer: Familial dysautonomia occurs primarily in people of Ashkenazi (central or eastern European) Jewish descent. It affects about 1 in 3,700 individuals in Ashkenazi Jewish populations. Familial dysautonomia is extremely rare in the general population.

Question: How many people are affected by Dandy-Walker malformation ?
Answer: Dandy-Walker malformation is estimated to affect 1 in 10,000 to 30,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by Danon disease ?
Answer: Danon disease is a rare condition, but the exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by craniometaphyseal dysplasia ?
Answer: Craniometaphyseal dysplasia is a very rare disorder; its incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Waldenstrm macroglobulinemia ?
Answer: Waldenstrm macroglobulinemia affects an estimated 3 per million people each year in the United States. Approximately 1,500 new cases of the condition are diagnosed each year in this country, and whites are more commonly affected than African Americans. For unknown reasons, the condition occurs twice as often in men than women.

Question: How many people are affected by Ghosal hematodiaphyseal dysplasia ?
Answer: Ghosal hematodiaphyseal dysplasia is a rare disorder; only a few cases have been reported in the medical literature. Most affected individuals have been from the Middle East and India.

Question: How many people are affected by 15q13.3 microdeletion ?
Answer: 15q13.3 microdeletion likely occurs in about 1 in 40,000 people in the general population. It appears to be more common in people with intellectual disability, epilepsy, schizophrenia, or autism spectrum disorders.

Question: How many people are affected by phosphoribosylpyrophosphate synthetase superactivity ?
Answer: PRS superactivity is believed to be a rare disorder. Approximately 30 families with the condition have been reported. More than two thirds of these families are affected by the milder form of the disease.

Question: How many people are affected by neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy ?
Answer: Neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy is a rare condition; its incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase deficiency is unknown. About 65 cases have been reported worldwide.  Researchers suspect that cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase deficiency is underdiagnosed and that mild cases of this disorder may be relatively common. Because the signs and symptoms can be difficult to detect, people with mild cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase deficiency may never come to medical attention.

Question: How many people are affected by Langer mesomelic dysplasia ?
Answer: The prevalence of Langer mesomelic dysplasia is unknown, although the condition appears to be rare. Several dozen affected individuals have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Ochoa syndrome ?
Answer: Ochoa syndrome is a rare disorder. About 150 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by 5-alpha reductase deficiency ?
Answer: 5-alpha reductase deficiency is a rare condition; the exact incidence is unknown. Large families with affected members have been found in several countries, including the Dominican Republic, Papua New Guinea, Turkey, and Egypt.

Question: How many people are affected by Pendred syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Pendred syndrome is unknown. However, researchers estimate that it accounts for 7 to 8 percent of all hearing loss that is present from birth (congenital hearing loss).

Question: How many people are affected by neurofibromatosis type 2 ?
Answer: Neurofibromatosis type 2 has an estimated incidence of 1 in 33,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy disease ?
Answer: The prevalence of MNGIE disease is unknown. About 70 people with this disorder have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by corticosteroid-binding globulin deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of corticosteroid-binding globulin deficiency is unknown, but it is thought to be a rare disorder. However, because some people with the disorder have mild or no symptoms, it is likely that corticosteroid-binding globulin deficiency is underdiagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by iron-refractory iron deficiency anemia ?
Answer: Although iron deficiency anemia is relatively common, the prevalence of the iron-refractory form of the disease is unknown. At least 50 cases have been described in the medical literature. Researchers suspect that iron-refractory iron deficiency anemia is underdiagnosed because affected individuals with very mild symptoms may never come to medical attention.

Question: How many people are affected by thiopurine S-methyltransferase deficiency ?
Answer: Studies suggest that less than 1 percent of individuals in the general population have TPMT deficiency. Another 11 percent have moderately reduced levels of TPMT activity that increase their risk of hematopoietic toxicity with thiopurine drug treatment.

Question: How many people are affected by progressive external ophthalmoplegia ?
Answer: The prevalence of progressive external ophthalmoplegia is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by alveolar capillary dysplasia with misalignment of pulmonary veins ?
Answer: ACD/MPV is a rare disorder; its incidence is unknown. Approximately 200 infants with this disorder have been identified worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by diastrophic dysplasia ?
Answer: Although the exact incidence of this condition is unknown, researchers estimate that it affects about 1 in 100,000 newborns. Diastrophic dysplasia occurs in all populations but appears to be particularly common in Finland.

Question: How many people are affected by primary carnitine deficiency ?
Answer: The incidence of primary carnitine deficiency in the general population is approximately 1 in 100,000 newborns. In Japan, this disorder affects 1 in every 40,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by multiple sulfatase deficiency ?
Answer: Multiple sulfatase deficiency is estimated to occur in 1 per million individuals worldwide. Approximately 50 cases have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by inclusion body myopathy 2 ?
Answer: More than 200 people with inclusion body myopathy 2 have been reported. Most are of Iranian Jewish descent; the condition affects an estimated 1 in 1,500 people in this population. Additionally, at least 15 people in the Japanese population have been diagnosed with this disorder. Inclusion body myopathy 2 has also been found in several other ethnic groups worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by lactate dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: Lactate dehydrogenase deficiency is a rare disorder. In Japan, this condition affects 1 in 1 million individuals; the prevalence of lactate dehydrogenase deficiency in other countries is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Kallmann syndrome ?
Answer: Kallmann syndrome is estimated to affect 1 in 10,000 to 86,000 people and occurs more often in males than in females. Kallmann syndrome 1 is the most common form of the disorder.

Question: How many people are affected by Bardet-Biedl syndrome ?
Answer: In most of North America and Europe, Bardet-Biedl syndrome has a prevalence of 1 in 140,000 to 1 in 160,000 newborns. The condition is more common on the island of Newfoundland (off the east coast of Canada), where it affects an estimated 1 in 17,000 newborns. It also occurs more frequently in the Bedouin population of Kuwait, affecting about 1 in 13,500 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of 3-HSD deficiency is unknown. At least 60 affected individuals have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by popliteal pterygium syndrome ?
Answer: Popliteal pterygium syndrome is a rare condition, occurring in approximately 1 in 300,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by white sponge nevus ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of white sponge nevus is unknown, but it is estimated to affect less than 1 in 200,000 individuals worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Maffucci syndrome ?
Answer: Maffucci syndrome is very rare. Since it was first described in 1881, fewer than 200 cases have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary antithrombin deficiency ?
Answer: Hereditary antithrombin deficiency is estimated to occur in about 1 in 2,000 to 3,000 individuals. Of people who have experienced an abnormal blood clot, about 1 in 20 to 200 have hereditary antithrombin deficiency.

Question: How many people are affected by glycogen storage disease type V ?
Answer: GSDV is a rare disorder; however, its prevalence is unknown. In the Dallas-Fort Worth area of Texas, where the prevalence of GSDV has been studied, the condition is estimated to affect 1 in 100,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by COL4A1-related brain small-vessel disease ?
Answer: COL4A1-related brain small-vessel disease is a rare condition, although the exact prevalence is unknown. At least 50 individuals with this condition have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Canavan disease ?
Answer: While this condition occurs in people of all ethnic backgrounds, it is most common in people of Ashkenazi (eastern and central European) Jewish heritage. Studies suggest that this disorder affects 1 in 6,400 to 13,500 people in the Ashkenazi Jewish population. The incidence in other populations is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Brugada syndrome ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of Brugada syndrome is unknown, although it is estimated to affect 5 in 10,000 people worldwide. This condition occurs much more frequently in people of Asian ancestry, particularly in Japanese and Southeast Asian populations.  Although Brugada syndrome affects both men and women, the condition appears to be 8 to 10 times more common in men. Researchers suspect that testosterone, a sex hormone present at much higher levels in men, may account for this difference.

Question: How many people are affected by Ohdo syndrome, Say-Barber-Biesecker-Young-Simpson variant ?
Answer: The SBBYS variant of Ohdo syndrome is estimated to occur in fewer than 1 per million people. At least 19 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked juvenile retinoschisis ?
Answer: The prevalence of X-linked juvenile retinoschisis is estimated to be 1 in 5,000 to 25,000 men worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by bradyopsia ?
Answer: Bradyopsia appears to be rare. Only a few affected individuals worldwide have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Stargardt macular degeneration ?
Answer: Stargardt macular degeneration is the most common form of juvenile macular degeneration, the signs and symptoms of which begin in childhood. The estimated prevalence of Stargardt macular degeneration is 1 in 8,000 to 10,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by essential pentosuria ?
Answer: Essential pentosuria occurs almost exclusively in individuals with Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry. Approximately 1 in 3,300 people in this population are affected.

Question: How many people are affected by leptin receptor deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of leptin receptor deficiency is unknown. It has been estimated to account for up to 3 percent of individuals with severe obesity and hyperphagia that begins in early childhood.

Question: How many people are affected by Loeys-Dietz syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Loeys-Dietz syndrome is unknown. Loeys-Dietz syndrome types I and II appear to be the most common forms.

Question: How many people are affected by nephrogenic diabetes insipidus ?
Answer: The prevalence of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is unknown, although the condition is thought to be rare. The acquired form occurs more frequently than the hereditary form.

Question: How many people are affected by leukoencephalopathy with brainstem and spinal cord involvement and lactate elevation ?
Answer: LBSL is a rare condition. Its exact prevalence is not known.

Question: How many people are affected by Waardenburg syndrome ?
Answer: Waardenburg syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 40,000 people. It accounts for 2 to 5 percent of all cases of congenital hearing loss. Types I and II are the most common forms of Waardenburg syndrome, while types III and IV are rare.

Question: How many people are affected by glutaric acidemia type I ?
Answer: Glutaric acidemia type I occurs in approximately 1 of every 30,000 to 40,000 individuals. It is much more common in the Amish community and in the Ojibwa population of Canada, where up to 1 in 300 newborns may be affected.

Question: How many people are affected by pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 ?
Answer: PHA2 is a rare condition; however, the prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by nonsyndromic hearing loss ?
Answer: Between 2 and 3 per 1,000 children in the United States are born with detectable hearing loss in one or both ears. The prevalence of hearing loss increases with age; the condition affects 1 in 8 people in the United States age 12 and older, or about 30 million people. By age 85, more than half of all people experience hearing loss.

Question: How many people are affected by cap myopathy ?
Answer: Cap myopathy is a rare disorder that has been identified in only a small number of individuals. Its exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Donnai-Barrow syndrome ?
Answer: Although its prevalence is unknown, Donnai-Barrow syndrome appears to be a rare disorder. A few dozen affected individuals have been reported in many regions of the world.

Question: How many people are affected by renal coloboma syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of renal coloboma syndrome is unknown; at least 60 cases have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Sjgren-Larsson syndrome ?
Answer: Sjgren-Larsson syndrome was first observed in Sweden, where the prevalence of this condition is 1 per 250,000 individuals. Outside Sweden, the prevalence of this condition is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by CHMP2B-related frontotemporal dementia ?
Answer: CHMP2B-related frontotemporal dementia has been reported in one large family in Denmark and a few unrelated individuals from other countries. This disease appears to be a rare form of frontotemporal dementia.

Question: How many people are affected by tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency ?
Answer: This condition is rare, affecting an estimated 1 in 500,000 to 1 in 1 million newborns. In most parts of the world, tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency accounts for 1 to 3 percent of all cases of elevated phenylalanine levels. The remaining cases are caused by a similar condition called phenylketonuria (PKU). In certain countries, including Saudi Arabia, Taiwan, China, and Turkey, it is more common for elevated levels of phenylalanine to be caused by tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency than by PKU.

Question: How many people are affected by Weissenbacher-Zweymller syndrome ?
Answer: Weissenbacher-Zweymller syndrome is very rare; only a few families with the disorder have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by dystonia 6 ?
Answer: The prevalence of dystonia 6 is unknown. Studies indicate that it likely accounts for between 1 and 3 percent of all cases of dystonia. For reasons that are unclear, the disorder appears to be slightly more prevalent in females than in males.

Question: How many people are affected by spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy ?
Answer: This condition affects fewer than 1 in 150,000 males and is very rare in females.

Question: How many people are affected by MPV17-related hepatocerebral mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome ?
Answer: MPV17-related hepatocerebral mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome is thought to be a rare condition. Approximately 30 cases have been described in the scientific literature, including seven families with Navajo neurohepatopathy. Within the Navajo Nation of the southwestern United States, Navajo neurohepatopathy is estimated to occur in 1 in 1,600 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by CHARGE syndrome ?
Answer: CHARGE syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 8,500 to 10,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by 8p11 myeloproliferative syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of 8p11 myeloproliferative syndrome is unknown. It is thought to be a rare condition.

Question: How many people are affected by hepatic lipase deficiency ?
Answer: Hepatic lipase deficiency is likely a rare disorder; only a few affected families have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by C3 glomerulopathy ?
Answer: C3 glomerulopathy is very rare, affecting 1 to 2 per million people worldwide. It is equally common in men and women.

Question: How many people are affected by spina bifida ?
Answer: Spina bifida is one of the most common types of neural tube defect, affecting an estimated 1 in 2,500 newborns worldwide. For unknown reasons, the prevalence of spina bifida varies among different geographic regions and ethnic groups. In the United States, this condition occurs more frequently in Hispanics and non-Hispanic whites than in African Americans.

Question: How many people are affected by mandibuloacral dysplasia ?
Answer: Mandibuloacral dysplasia is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by mucopolysaccharidosis type VI ?
Answer: The exact incidence of MPS VI is unknown, although it is estimated to occur in 1 in 250,000 to 600,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy ?
Answer: Hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy is a rare disorder, but its specific prevalence is unknown. Approximately 200 families affected by the disorder have been identified worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by sialidosis ?
Answer: The overall prevalence of sialidosis is unknown. Sialidosis type I appears to be more common in people with Italian ancestry.

Question: How many people are affected by tetra-amelia syndrome ?
Answer: Tetra-amelia syndrome has been reported in only a few families worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by trichohepatoenteric syndrome ?
Answer: Trichohepatoenteric syndrome is a rare condition with an estimated prevalence of about 1 in 1 million people. At least 44 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by abetalipoproteinemia ?
Answer: Abetalipoproteinemia is a rare disorder with approximately 100 cases described worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked intellectual disability, Siderius type ?
Answer: While X-linked intellectual disability of all types and causes is relatively common, with a prevalence of 1 in 600 to 1,000 males, the prevalence of the Siderius type is unknown. Only a few affected families have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by myofibrillar myopathy ?
Answer: The prevalence of myofibrillar myopathy is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Rotor syndrome ?
Answer: Rotor syndrome is a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Bart-Pumphrey syndrome ?
Answer: Bart-Pumphrey syndrome is a rare disorder; its exact prevalence is unknown. Only a few affected families and individual cases have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by Amish lethal microcephaly ?
Answer: Amish lethal microcephaly occurs in approximately 1 in 500 newborns in the Old Order Amish population of Pennsylvania. It has not been found outside this population.

Question: How many people are affected by Miyoshi myopathy ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of Miyoshi myopathy is unknown. In Japan, where the condition was first described, it is estimated to affect 1 in 440,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by 17-beta hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 3 deficiency ?
Answer: 17-beta hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 3 deficiency is a rare disorder. Researchers have estimated that this condition occurs in approximately 1 in 147,000 newborns. It is more common in the Arab population of Gaza, where it affects 1 in 200 to 300 people.

Question: How many people are affected by gastrointestinal stromal tumor ?
Answer: Approximately 5,000 new cases of GIST are diagnosed in the United States each year. However, GISTs may be more common than this estimate because small tumors may remain undiagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by recombinant 8 syndrome ?
Answer: Recombinant 8 syndrome is a rare condition; its exact incidence is unknown. Most people with this condition are descended from a Hispanic population originating in the San Luis Valley area of southern Colorado and northern New Mexico. Recombinant 8 syndrome is also called San Luis Valley syndrome. Only a few cases outside this population have been found.

Question: How many people are affected by triple X syndrome ?
Answer: This condition occurs in about 1 in 1,000 newborn girls. Five to 10 girls with triple X syndrome are born in the United States each day.

Question: How many people are affected by Norrie disease ?
Answer: Norrie disease is a rare disorder; its exact incidence is unknown. It is not associated with any specific racial or ethnic group.

Question: How many people are affected by sepiapterin reductase deficiency ?
Answer: Sepiapterin reductase deficiency appears to be a rare condition. At least 30 cases have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by familial acute myeloid leukemia with mutated CEBPA ?
Answer: Acute myeloid leukemia occurs in approximately 3.5 in 100,000 individuals per year. Familial acute myeloid leukemia with mutated CEBPA is a very rare form of acute myeloid leukemia; only a few affected families have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by Carney complex ?
Answer: Carney complex is a rare disorder; fewer than 750 affected individuals have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by Peutz-Jeghers syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of this condition is uncertain; estimates range from 1 in 25,000 to 300,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital sucrase-isomaltase deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of congenital sucrase-isomaltase deficiency is estimated to be 1 in 5,000 people of European descent. This condition is much more prevalent in the native populations of Greenland, Alaska, and Canada, where as many as 1 in 20 people may be affected.

Question: How many people are affected by epidermal nevus ?
Answer: Epidermal nevi affect approximately 1 in 1,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by trisomy 18 ?
Answer: Trisomy 18 occurs in about 1 in 5,000 live-born infants; it is more common in pregnancy, but many affected fetuses do not survive to term. Although women of all ages can have a child with trisomy 18, the chance of having a child with this condition increases as a woman gets older.

Question: How many people are affected by Langer-Giedion syndrome ?
Answer: Langer-Giedion syndrome is a rare condition; its incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Leigh syndrome ?
Answer: Leigh syndrome affects at least 1 in 40,000 newborns. The condition is more common in certain populations. For example, the condition occurs in approximately 1 in 2,000 newborns in the Saguenay Lac-Saint-Jean region of Quebec, Canada.

Question: How many people are affected by heterotaxy syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of heterotaxy syndrome is estimated to be 1 in 10,000 people worldwide. However, researchers suspect that the condition is underdiagnosed, and so it may actually be more common than this. Heterotaxy syndrome accounts for approximately 3 percent of all congenital heart defects. For reasons that are unknown, the condition appears to be more common in Asian populations than in North America and Europe. Recent studies report that in the United States, the condition occurs more frequently in children born to black or Hispanic mothers than in children born to white mothers.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens ?
Answer: This condition is responsible for 1 percent to 2 percent of all infertility in men.

Question: How many people are affected by mitochondrial trifunctional protein deficiency ?
Answer: Mitochondrial trifunctional protein deficiency is a rare disorder; its incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by glycogen storage disease type I ?
Answer: The overall incidence of GSDI is 1 in 100,000 individuals. GSDIa is more common than GSDIb, accounting for 80 percent of all GSDI cases.

Question: How many people are affected by short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: This disorder is thought to affect approximately 1 in 35,000 to 50,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by Refsum disease ?
Answer: The prevalence of Refsum disease is unknown, although the condition is thought to be uncommon.

Question: How many people are affected by DMD-associated dilated cardiomyopathy ?
Answer: DMD-associated dilated cardiomyopathy appears to be an uncommon condition, although its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by sporadic hemiplegic migraine ?
Answer: The worldwide prevalence of sporadic hemiplegic migraine is unknown. Studies suggest that in Denmark about 1 in 10,000 people have hemiplegic migraine and that the condition occurs equally in families with multiple affected individuals (familial hemiplegic migraine) and in individuals with no family history of the condition (sporadic hemiplegic migraine).

Question: How many people are affected by isolated Duane retraction syndrome ?
Answer: Isolated Duane retraction syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 1,000 people worldwide. This condition accounts for 1 percent to 5 percent of all cases of abnormal eye alignment (strabismus). For unknown reasons, isolated Duane syndrome affects females more often than males.

Question: How many people are affected by Farber lipogranulomatosis ?
Answer: Farber lipogranulomatosis is a rare disorder. About 80 cases have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by oculofaciocardiodental syndrome ?
Answer: OFCD syndrome is very rare; the incidence is estimated to be less than 1 in 1 million people.

Question: How many people are affected by VLDLR-associated cerebellar hypoplasia ?
Answer: VLDLR-associated cerebellar hypoplasia is rare; its prevalence is unknown. The condition was first described in the Hutterite population in Canada and the United States. This condition has also been reported in families from Iran and Turkey.

Question: How many people are affected by Coffin-Siris syndrome ?
Answer: Coffin-Siris syndrome is a rare condition that is diagnosed in females more frequently than in males. Approximately 140 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by hidradenitis suppurativa ?
Answer: Hidradenitis suppurativa was once thought to be a rare condition because only the most severe cases were reported. However, recent studies have shown that the condition affects at least 1 in 100 people when milder cases are also considered. For reasons that are unclear, women are about twice as likely as men to develop the condition.

Question: How many people are affected by GRN-related frontotemporal dementia ?
Answer: GRN-related frontotemporal dementia affects an estimated 3 to 15 per 100,000 people aged 45 to 64. This condition accounts for 5 to 10 percent of all cases of frontotemporal dementia.

Question: How many people are affected by IRAK-4 deficiency ?
Answer: IRAK-4 deficiency is a very rare condition, although the exact prevalence is unknown. At least 49 individuals with this condition have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by WAGR syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of WAGR syndrome ranges from 1 in 500,000 to one million individuals. It is estimated that one-third of people with aniridia actually have WAGR syndrome. Approximately 7 in 1,000 cases of Wilms tumor can be attributed to WAGR syndrome.

Question: How many people are affected by pontocerebellar hypoplasia ?
Answer: The prevalence of pontocerebellar hypoplasia is unknown, although most forms of the disorder appear to be very rare.

Question: How many people are affected by Imerslund-Grsbeck syndrome ?
Answer: Imerslund-Grsbeck syndrome is a rare condition that was first described in Finland and Norway; in these regions, the condition is estimated to affect 1 in 200,000 people. The condition has also been reported in other countries worldwide; its prevalence in these countries is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy ?
Answer: Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy is seen almost exclusively in Japan, where it is the second most common form of childhood muscular dystrophy (after Duchenne muscular dystrophy). Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy has an estimated incidence of 2 to 4 per 100,000 Japanese infants.

Question: How many people are affected by Klinefelter syndrome ?
Answer: Klinefelter syndrome affects 1 in 500 to 1,000 newborn males. Most variants of Klinefelter syndrome are much rarer, occurring in 1 in 50,000 or fewer newborns.  Researchers suspect that Klinefelter syndrome is underdiagnosed because the condition may not be identified in people with mild signs and symptoms. Additionally, the features of the condition vary and overlap significantly with those of other conditions.

Question: How many people are affected by Majeed syndrome ?
Answer: Majeed syndrome appears to be very rare; it has been reported in three families, all from the Middle East.

Question: How many people are affected by L1 syndrome ?
Answer: L1 syndrome is estimated to occur in 1 in 25,000 to 60,000 males. Females are rarely affected by this condition.

Question: How many people are affected by Christianson syndrome ?
Answer: Christianson syndrome is a rare condition, although the exact prevalence is unknown. The condition was first described in a South African family and has since been found people in other parts of the world.

Question: How many people are affected by hypokalemic periodic paralysis ?
Answer: Although its exact prevalence is unknown, hypokalemic periodic paralysis is estimated to affect 1 in 100,000 people. Men tend to experience symptoms of this condition more often than women.

Question: How many people are affected by Townes-Brocks Syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of this condition is unknown, although one study estimated that it may affect 1 in 250,000 people. It is difficult to determine how frequently Townes-Brocks syndrome occurs because the varied signs and symptoms of this disorder overlap with those of other genetic syndromes.

Question: How many people are affected by glycogen storage disease type IV ?
Answer: GSD IV is estimated to occur in 1 in 600,000 to 800,000 individuals worldwide. Type IV accounts for roughly 3 percent of all cases of glycogen storage disease.

Question: How many people are affected by color vision deficiency ?
Answer: Red-green color vision defects are the most common form of color vision deficiency. This condition affects males much more often than females. Among populations with Northern European ancestry, it occurs in about 1 in 12 males and 1 in 200 females. Red-green color vision defects have a lower incidence in almost all other populations studied.  Blue-yellow color vision defects affect males and females equally. This condition occurs in fewer than 1 in 10,000 people worldwide.  Blue cone monochromacy is rarer than the other forms of color vision deficiency, affecting about 1 in 100,000 people worldwide. Like red-green color vision defects, blue cone monochromacy affects males much more often than females.

Question: How many people are affected by X-linked creatine deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of X-linked creatine deficiency is unknown. More than 150 affected individuals have been identified. The disorder has been estimated to account for between 1 and 2 percent of males with intellectual disability.

Question: How many people are affected by Coffin-Lowry syndrome ?
Answer: The incidence of this condition is uncertain, but researchers estimate that the disorder affects 1 in 40,000 to 50,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome ?
Answer: This condition is very rare; it is reported to occur in 1 in 4 million newborns worldwide. More than 130 cases have been reported in the scientific literature since the condition was first described in 1886.

Question: How many people are affected by lattice corneal dystrophy type I ?
Answer: Lattice corneal dystrophy type I is one of the most common disorders in a group of conditions that are characterized by protein deposits in the cornea (corneal dystrophies); however, it is still a rare condition. The prevalence of lattice corneal dystrophy type I is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Emanuel syndrome ?
Answer: Emanuel syndrome is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. More than 100 individuals with this condition have been reported.

Question: How many people are affected by congenital neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis ?
Answer: Congenital NCL is the rarest type of NCL; approximately 10 cases have been described.

Question: How many people are affected by malignant hyperthermia ?
Answer: Malignant hyperthermia occurs in 1 in 5,000 to 50,000 instances in which people are given anesthetic gases. Susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia is probably more frequent, because many people with an increased risk of this condition are never exposed to drugs that trigger a reaction.

Question: How many people are affected by small fiber neuropathy ?
Answer: The prevalence of small fiber neuropathy is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by hypermethioninemia ?
Answer: Primary hypermethioninemia that is not caused by other disorders or excess methionine intake appears to be rare; only a small number of cases have been reported. The actual incidence is difficult to determine, however, since many individuals with hypermethioninemia have no symptoms.

Question: How many people are affected by chylomicron retention disease ?
Answer: Chylomicron retention disease is a rare condition with approximately 40 cases described worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by neuromyelitis optica ?
Answer: Neuromyelitis optica affects approximately 1 to 2 per 100,000 people worldwide. Women are affected by this condition more frequently than men.

Question: How many people are affected by renal tubular dysgenesis ?
Answer: Renal tubular dysgenesis is a rare disorder, but its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Crohn disease ?
Answer: Crohn disease is most common in western Europe and North America, where it affects 100 to 150 in 100,000 people. About one million Americans are currently affected by this disorder. Crohn disease occurs more often in whites and people of eastern and central European (Ashkenazi) Jewish descent than among people of other ethnic backgrounds.

Question: How many people are affected by antiphospholipid syndrome ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of antiphospholipid syndrome is unknown. This condition is thought to be fairly common, and may be responsible for up to one percent of all thromboses. It is estimated that 20 percent of individuals younger than age 50 who have a stroke have antiphospholipid syndrome. Ten to 15 percent of people with systemic lupus erythematosus have antiphospholipid syndrome. Similarly, 10 to 15 percent of women with recurrent miscarriages likely have this condition. Approximately 70 percent of individuals diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome are female.

Question: How many people are affected by adiposis dolorosa ?
Answer: Adiposis dolorosa is a rare condition whose prevalence is unknown. For reasons that are unclear, it occurs up to 30 times more often in women than in men.

Question: How many people are affected by CATSPER1-related nonsyndromic male infertility ?
Answer: The prevalence of CATSPER1-related nonsyndromic male infertility is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome ?
Answer: Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome is a rare disorder. Its exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by microcephaly-capillary malformation syndrome ?
Answer: Microcephaly-capillary malformation syndrome is rare. About a dozen people have been diagnosed with the disorder.

Question: How many people are affected by atopic dermatitis ?
Answer: Atopic dermatitis is a common disorder that affects 10 to 20 percent of children and 5 to 10 percent of adults.

Question: How many people are affected by renal hypouricemia ?
Answer: The prevalence of renal hypouricemia is unknown; at least 150 affected individuals have been described in the scientific literature. This condition is thought to be most prevalent in Asian countries such as Japan and South Korea, although affected individuals have been found in Europe. Renal hypouricemia is likely underdiagnosed because it does not cause any symptoms in many affected individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA lyase deficiency ?
Answer: HMG-CoA lyase deficiency is a rare condition; it has been reported in fewer than 100 individuals worldwide. Most people diagnosed with this disorder have been from Saudi Arabia, Portugal, or Spain.

Question: How many people are affected by Poland syndrome ?
Answer: Poland syndrome has been estimated to occur in 1 in 20,000 newborns. For unknown reasons, this disorder occurs more than twice as often in males than in females. Poland syndrome may be underdiagnosed because mild cases without hand involvement may never come to medical attention.

Question: How many people are affected by myopathy with deficiency of iron-sulfur cluster assembly enzyme ?
Answer: This condition has been reported in several families of northern Swedish ancestry.

Question: How many people are affected by dyskeratosis congenita ?
Answer: The exact prevalence of dyskeratosis congenita is unknown. It is estimated to occur in approximately 1 in 1 million people.

Question: How many people are affected by hereditary spherocytosis ?
Answer: Hereditary spherocytosis occurs in 1 in 2,000 individuals of Northern European ancestry. This condition is the most common cause of inherited anemia in that population. The prevalence of hereditary spherocytosis in people of other ethnic backgrounds is unknown, but it is much less common.

Question: How many people are affected by achondrogenesis ?
Answer: Achondrogenesis types 1A and 1B are rare genetic disorders; their incidence is unknown. Combined, achondrogenesis type 2 and hypochondrogenesis (a similar skeletal disorder) occur in 1 in 40,000 to 60,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata ?
Answer: Rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata affects fewer than 1 in 100,000 people worldwide. RCDP1 is more common than RCDP2 or RCDP3.

Question: How many people are affected by lactose intolerance ?
Answer: Lactose intolerance in infancy resulting from congenital lactase deficiency is a rare disorder. Its incidence is unknown. This condition is most common in Finland, where it affects an estimated 1 in 60,000 newborns.  Approximately 65 percent of the human population has a reduced ability to digest lactose after infancy. Lactose intolerance in adulthood is most prevalent in people of East Asian descent, affecting more than 90 percent of adults in some of these communities. Lactose intolerance is also very common in people of West African, Arab, Jewish, Greek, and Italian descent.  The prevalence of lactose intolerance is lowest in populations with a long history of dependence on unfermented milk products as an important food source. For example, only about 5 percent of people of Northern European descent are lactose intolerant.

Question: How many people are affected by spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 ?
Answer: The prevalence of SCA2 is unknown. This condition is estimated to be one of the most common types of spinocerebellar ataxia; however, all types of spinocerebellar ataxia are relatively rare. SCA2 is more common in Cuba, particularly in the Holgun province, where approximately 40 per 100,000 individuals are affected.

Question: How many people are affected by beta-ureidopropionase deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of beta-ureidopropionase deficiency is unknown. A small number of affected individuals from populations around the world have been described in the medical literature. In Japan, the prevalence of beta-ureidopropionase deficiency has been estimated as 1 in 6,000 people. Researchers suggest that in many affected individuals with absent or mild neurological problems, the condition may never be diagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by microvillus inclusion disease ?
Answer: The prevalence of microvillus inclusion disease is unknown. At least 200 cases have been reported in Europe, although this condition occurs worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Weaver syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Weaver syndrome is unknown. About 50 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Pfeiffer syndrome ?
Answer: Pfeiffer syndrome affects about 1 in 100,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by beta-ketothiolase deficiency ?
Answer: Beta-ketothiolase deficiency appears to be very rare. It is estimated to affect fewer than 1 in 1 million newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by familial thoracic aortic aneurysm and dissection ?
Answer: Familial TAAD is believed to account for at least 20 percent of thoracic aortic aneurysms and dissections. In the remainder of cases, the abnormalities are thought to be caused by factors that are not inherited, such as damage to the walls of the aorta from aging, tobacco use, injury, or disease.  While aortic aneurysms are common worldwide, it is difficult to determine their exact prevalence because they usually cause no symptoms unless they rupture. Ruptured aortic aneurysms and dissections are estimated to cause almost 30,000 deaths in the United States each year.

Question: How many people are affected by familial lipoprotein lipase deficiency ?
Answer: This condition affects about 1 per million people worldwide. It is much more common in certain areas of the province of Quebec, Canada.

Question: How many people are affected by neuropathy, ataxia, and retinitis pigmentosa ?
Answer: The prevalence of NARP is unknown. This disorder is probably less common than a similar but more severe condition, Leigh syndrome, which affects about 1 in 40,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by familial encephalopathy with neuroserpin inclusion bodies ?
Answer: This condition appears to be rare; only a few affected individuals have been reported worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by dentinogenesis imperfecta ?
Answer: Dentinogenesis imperfecta affects an estimated 1 in 6,000 to 8,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by vitiligo ?
Answer: Vitiligo is a common disorder, affecting between 0.5 percent and 1 percent of the population worldwide. While the condition may be more noticeable in dark-skinned people, it occurs with similar frequency in all ethnic groups.

Question: How many people are affected by dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: Severe dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency, with its early-onset neurological symptoms, is a rare disorder. Its prevalence is unknown. However, between 2 and 8 percent of the general population may be vulnerable to toxic reactions to fluoropyrimidine drugs caused by otherwise asymptomatic dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency.

Question: How many people are affected by Frasier syndrome ?
Answer: Frasier syndrome is thought to be a rare condition; approximately 50 cases have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by hyperlysinemia ?
Answer: The incidence of hyperlysinemia is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by Zellweger spectrum disorder ?
Answer: Zellweger spectrum disorder is estimated to occur in 1 in 50,000 individuals.

Question: How many people are affected by Swyer syndrome ?
Answer: Swyer syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 80,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by spastic paraplegia type 11 ?
Answer: Over 100 cases of spastic paraplegia type 11 have been reported. Although this condition is thought to be rare, its exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by paroxysmal extreme pain disorder ?
Answer: Paroxysmal extreme pain disorder is a rare condition; approximately 80 affected individuals have been described in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by multicentric osteolysis, nodulosis, and arthropathy ?
Answer: MONA is rare; its prevalence is unknown. This condition has been reported in multiple populations worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by histidinemia ?
Answer: Estimates of the incidence of histidinemia vary widely, ranging between 1 in 8,600 to 1 in 90,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by myotonia congenita ?
Answer: Myotonia congenita is estimated to affect 1 in 100,000 people worldwide. This condition is more common in northern Scandinavia, where it occurs in approximately 1 in 10,000 people.

Question: How many people are affected by glutaric acidemia type II ?
Answer: Glutaric acidemia type II is a very rare disorder; its precise incidence is unknown. It has been reported in several different ethnic groups.

Question: How many people are affected by atelosteogenesis type 2 ?
Answer: Atelosteogenesis type 2 is an extremely rare genetic disorder; its incidence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by mevalonate kinase deficiency ?
Answer: More than 200 people with mevalonate kinase deficiency have been reported worldwide; the majority of these individuals have HIDS.

Question: How many people are affected by tarsal-carpal coalition syndrome ?
Answer: This condition is very rare; however, the exact prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by persistent Mllerian duct syndrome ?
Answer: Persistent Mllerian duct syndrome is a rare disorder; however, the prevalence of the condition is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by deoxyguanosine kinase deficiency ?
Answer: The prevalence of deoxyguanosine kinase deficiency is unknown. Approximately 100 affected individuals have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by 17 alpha-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency ?
Answer: 17-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency accounts for about 1 percent of congenital adrenal hyperplasia cases. It is estimated to occur in 1 in 1 million people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by aceruloplasminemia ?
Answer: Aceruloplasminemia has been seen worldwide, but its overall prevalence is unknown. Studies in Japan have estimated that approximately 1 in 2 million adults in this population are affected.

Question: How many people are affected by complement factor I deficiency ?
Answer: Complement factor I deficiency is a rare disorder; its exact prevalence is unknown. At least 38 cases have been reported in the medical literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Dowling-Degos disease ?
Answer: Dowling-Degos disease appears to be a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by autoimmune polyglandular syndrome, type 1 ?
Answer: Autoimmune polyglandular syndrome, type 1 is thought to be a rare condition, with about 500 cases reported worldwide. This condition occurs more frequently in certain populations, including Iranian Jews, Sardinians, and Finns.

Question: How many people are affected by Renpenning syndrome ?
Answer: Renpenning syndrome is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. More than 60 affected individuals in at least 15 families have been identified.

Question: How many people are affected by Asperger syndrome ?
Answer: The prevalence of Asperger syndrome is not well established. Estimates range from 1 in 250 to 1 in 5,000 children. Three to four times as many males are affected than females.  Because of changes in the way developmental disorders are classified, Asperger syndrome was not often diagnosed in adults until recently, and the prevalence is often perceived to be rising as more people are recognized to have features of the condition. Many mildly affected individuals likely continue to be undiagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by retroperitoneal fibrosis ?
Answer: Retroperitoneal fibrosis occurs in 1 in 200,000 to 500,000 people per year. The disorder occurs approximately twice as often in men as it does in women, but the reason for this difference is unclear.

Question: How many people are affected by Legg-Calv-Perthes disease ?
Answer: The incidence of Legg-Calv-Perthes disease varies by population. The condition is most common in white populations, in which it affects an estimated 1 to 3 in 20,000 children under age 15.

Question: How many people are affected by Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome ?
Answer: Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 13,700 newborns worldwide. The condition may actually be more common than this estimate because some people with mild symptoms are never diagnosed.

Question: How many people are affected by ataxia with oculomotor apraxia ?
Answer: Ataxia with oculomotor apraxia is a rare condition. Type 1 is a common form of ataxia in Portugal and Japan. Type 2 is estimated to occur in 1 in 900,000 individuals worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by Costello syndrome ?
Answer: This condition is very rare; it probably affects 200 to 300 people worldwide. Reported estimates of Costello syndrome prevalence range from 1 in 300,000 to 1 in 1.25 million people.

Question: How many people are affected by craniofacial-deafness-hand syndrome ?
Answer: Craniofacial-deafness-hand syndrome is an extremely rare condition. Only a few cases have been reported in the scientific literature.

Question: How many people are affected by Laing distal myopathy ?
Answer: Although Laing distal myopathy is thought to be rare, its prevalence is unknown. Several families with the condition have been identified worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by biotin-thiamine-responsive basal ganglia disease ?
Answer: Biotin-thiamine-responsive basal ganglia disease is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. Approximately 48 cases have been reported in the medical literature; most of these are individuals from Arab populations.

Question: How many people are affected by Pearson marrow-pancreas syndrome ?
Answer: Pearson marrow-pancreas syndrome is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown.

Question: How many people are affected by hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia ?
Answer: Hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia is the most common form of ectodermal dysplasia in humans. It is estimated to affect at least 1 in 17,000 people worldwide.

Question: How many people are affected by achondroplasia ?
Answer: Achondroplasia is the most common type of short-limbed dwarfism. The condition occurs in 1 in 15,000 to 40,000 newborns.

Question: How many people are affected by head and neck squamous cell carcinoma ?
Answer: HNSCC is the seventh most common cancer worldwide. Approximately 600,000 new cases are diagnosed each year, including about 50,000 in the United States. HNSCC occurs most often in men in their 50s or 60s, although the incidence among younger individuals is increasing.

Question: How many people are affected by Lowe syndrome ?
Answer: Lowe syndrome is an uncommon condition. It has an estimated prevalence of 1 in 500,000 people.

