Question: What is (are) Congenital adrenal hyperplasia ?
Answer: Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) refers to a group of genetic conditions that affect the adrenal glands. These glands sit on top of the kidneys and are responsible for releasing various types of hormones that the body needs to function. Affected people lack an enzyme the adrenal glands need to make one or more of these hormones and often overproduce androgens (male hormones such as testosterone). The signs and symptoms present in each person depend on many factors including the type of CAH, the age of diagnosis, and the sex of the affected person. For example, females with a severe form of the condition may have ambiguous genitalia at birth and if not properly diagnosed, develop dehydration, poor feeding, diarrhea, vomiting and other health problems soon after. People with milder forms may not be diagnosed with the condition until adolescence or adulthood when they experience early signs of puberty or fertility problems. Treatment for CAH varies but may include medication and/or surgery.

Question: What is (are) Medium-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency ?
Answer: Medium-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency (MCADD) is an inherited metabolic disorder that prevents the body from converting certain fats to energy, particularly during periods without food (fasting). Normally, through a process called fatty acid oxidation, several enzymes work in a step-wise fashion to break down (metabolize) fats and convert them to energy. People with MCADD do not have enough of an enzyme needed for the step that metabolizes a group of fats called medium-chain fatty acids. MCADD is caused by mutations in the ACADM gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment includes avoidance of fasting and of medium chain triglycerides in the diet.

Question: What is (are) Non-involuting congenital hemangioma ?
Answer: Non-involuting congenital hemangioma (NICH) is a rare type of infantile hemangioma, which is a tumor that forms from the abnormal growth of blood vessels in the skin.  NICH looks like an oval, purplish mark or bump that can occur on any part of the body.  NICH is present from birth (congenital) and increases in size as the child grows.  Unlike other hemangiomas, NICH do not disappear spontaneously (involute).

Question: What is (are) Proteus-like syndrome ?
Answer: Proteus-like syndrome describes people who do not meet the diagnostic criteria for Proteus syndrome but who share many of the characteristic signs and symptoms associated with the condition. Affected people may experience some of the following features: overgrowth of the bones, skin, and other tissues; hamartomas; abnormalities of the skin, blood vessels (vascular tissue) and fat (adipose tissue); and distinctive facial features. Approximately 50% of people with Proteus-like syndrome are found to have changes (mutations) in the PTEN gene. In these cases, the inheritance is autosomal dominant. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A ?
Answer: Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A (MEN 2A) is is an inherited disorder caused by mutations in the RET gene. Individuals with MEN 2A are at high risk of developing medullary carcinoma of the thyroid. About 50% will develop pheochromocytoma, a tumor of the adrenal glands which may increase blood pressure. Individuals with MEN 2A are also at increased risk for parathyroid adenoma or hyperplasia (overgrowth of the parathyroid gland). Occasionally an itchy skin condition called cutaneous lichen amyloidosis also occurs in people with type 2A disease. The condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.

Question: What is (are) Chromosome 16q deletion ?
Answer: Chromosome 16q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing (deleted) copy of genetic material on the long arm (q) of chromosome 16. The severity of the condition and the signs and symptoms depend on the size and location of the deletion and which genes are involved. Features that often occur in people with chromosome 16q deletion include developmental delay, intellectual disability, behavioral problems and distinctive facial features. Chromosome testing of both parents can provide more information on whether or not the deletion was inherited. In most cases, parents do not have any chromosomal anomaly. However, sometimes one parent is found to have a balanced translocation, where a piece of a chromosome has broken off and attached to another one with no gain or loss of genetic material. The balanced translocation normally does not cause any signs or symptoms, but it increases the risk for having an affected child with a chromosomal anomaly like a deletion. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person. This page is meant to provide general information about 16q deletions. You can contact GARD if you have questions about a specific deletion on chromosome 16. To learn more about chromosomal anomalies please visit our GARD webpage on FAQs about Chromosome Disorders.

Question: What is (are) Achondroplasia and severe combined immunodeficiency ?
Answer: Achondroplasia with severe combined immunodeficiency is an extremely rare type of SCID. The condition is characterized by the classic signs of SCID, including severe and recurrent infections, diarrhea, failure to thrive, and absence of T and B lymphocytes along with skeletal anomalies like short stature, bowing of the long bones and other abnormalities affecting the ends of the long bones (metaphyseal abnormalities). Children with this condition have a shortened life expectancy, generally surviving only into early childhood. Achondroplasia with severe combined immunodeficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.

Question: What is (are) Cri du chat syndrome ?
Answer: Cri du chat syndrome, also known as 5p- (5p minus) syndrome or cat cry syndrome, is a genetic condition that is caused by the deletion of genetic material on the small arm (the p arm) of chromosome 5. Infants with this condition often have a high-pitched cry that sounds like that of a cat. The disorder is characterized by intellectual disability and delayed development, small head size, low birth weight, weak muscle tone in infancy, and distinctive facial features. While cri du chat syndrome is a genetic condition, most cases are not inherited.

Question: What is (are) Complement component 2 deficiency ?
Answer: Complement component 2 deficiency (C2D) is a genetic condition that affects the immune system. Signs and symptoms include recurrent bacterial infections and risk for a variety of autoimmune conditions. Infections can be very serious and are common in early life. They become less frequent during the teen and adult years. The most frequent autoimmune conditions associated with C2D are lupus (10-20%) and vasculitis. C2D is caused by mutations in the C2 gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion.

Question: What is (are) Citrullinemia type I ?
Answer: Citrullinemia type I is an inherited disorder that causes ammonia and other toxic substances to accumulate in the blood. This condition, also known as classic citrullinemia, belongs to a class of genetic diseases called urea cycle disorders. In most cases, the condition becomes evident in the first few days of life. Affected infants typically appear normal at birth, but as ammonia builds up in the body they experience a progressive lack of energy (lethargy), poor feeding, vomiting, seizures, and loss of consciousness. Citrullinemia type I is caused by mutations in the ASS1 gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.

Question: What is (are) Hyper-IgD syndrome ?
Answer: Hyper IgD syndrome is an inflammatory genetic disorder characterized by periodic episodes of fever associated with additional symptoms including joint pain, skin rash and abdominal pain. Most episodes last several days and occur periodically throughout life. The frequency of episodes and their severity vary greatly from case to case.  Hyper IgD syndrome is caused by mutations in the gene encoding mevalonate kinase (MVK). It is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.

Question: What is (are) Schimke immunoosseous dysplasia ?
Answer: Schimke immunoosseous dysplasia (SIOD) is a condition characterized by short stature, kidney disease, and a weakened immune system.   Growth failure is often the first sign of this condition.  Other features are usually detected in the evaluation for growth failure or in the following years.  The severity of SIOD ranges from an infantile or severe early-onset form to a juvenile or milder late-onset form.  Complications of the severe form of SIOD can include strokes, severe opportunistic infections, bone marrow failure, and kidney failure that can be life-threatening early in life. People with milder disease have survived to adulthood if their kidney disease is managed. This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.  Mutations in the SMARCAL1 gene increase the risk to develop Schimke immunoosseous dysplasia.  However, in order for people with SMARCAL1 gene mutations to develop symptoms of Schimke immunoosseous dysplasia, other currently unknown genetic or environmental factors must also be present.

Question: What is (are) Pyruvate carboxylase deficiency ?
Answer: Pyruvate carboxylase deficiency is an inherited disorder that causes lactic acid and other potentially toxic compounds to accumulate in the blood. High levels of these substances can damage the body's organs and tissues, particularly in the nervous system. Researchers have identified at least three types of pyruvate carboxylase deficiency, types A, B, and C, which are distinguished by the severity of their signs and symptoms. This condition is caused by mutations in the PC gene and inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.

Question: What is (are) Zellweger spectrum ?
Answer: Zellweger spectrum refers to a group of related conditions that have overlapping signs and symptoms and affect many parts of the body. The spectrum includes Zellweger syndrome (ZS), the most severe form; neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (NALD), an intermediate form; and infantile Refsum disease (IRD), the least severe form. Signs and symptoms of ZS typically become apparent in the newborn period and may include hypotonia, feeding problems, hearing and vision loss, seizures, distinctive facial characteristics, and skeletal abnormalities. Individuals with ZS often do not survive past the first year of life. The features of NALD and IRD often vary in nature and severity, and may not become apparent until late infancy or early childhood. Individuals with NALD or IRD may have hypotonia, vision and/or hearing problems, liver dysfunction, developmental delay and learning disabilities. Most individuals with NALD survive into childhood, and those with IRD may reach adulthood. Conditions in the Zellweger spectrum are caused by mutations in any of at least 12 genes and are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment typically focuses on the specific signs and symptoms present in each individual.

Question: What is (are) Congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries ?
Answer: Congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries is a rare heart defect that occurs when the ventricles and attached valves are switched. As a result, the aorta and the pulmonary artery are connected to the wrong lower heart chambers. Click here to visit MayoClinic.com and view an image of this heart defect. While the oxygen-poor blood still flows to the lungs, and oxygen-rich blood still flows out to nourish the body, other heart problems (such as septal defects, pulmonary stenosis, tricuspid regurgitation, and heart block) are often associated with this defect and require treatment.

Question: What is (are) Acute alcohol sensitivity ?
Answer: Alcohol intolerance is characterized by immediate unpleasant reactions after drinking alcohol. The most common signs and symptoms of alcohol intolerance are stuffy nose and skin flushing. Alcohol intolerance is caused by a genetic condition in which the body is unable to break down alcohol efficiently, usually found in Asians. These individuals accumulate acetaldehyde, the primary metabolite of ethanol, because of a genetic polymorphism of aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) that metabolizes acetaldehyde to nontoxic acetate.[9184] The only way to prevent alcohol intolerance reactions is to avoid alcohol. Alcohol intolerance isn't an allergy. However, in some cases, what seems to be alcohol intolerance may be a reaction to something in an alcoholic beverage, such as chemicals, grains or preservatives. Combining alcohol with certain medications also can cause reactions. In rare instances, an unpleasant reaction to alcohol can be a sign of a serious underlying health problem that requires diagnosis and treatment.

Question: What is (are) Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease ?
Answer: Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease is a group of disorders that affect the peripheral nerves, the nerves running from outside the brain and spine. Defects in many different genes cause different forms of this disease. Common symptoms may include foot drop, foot deformity, loss of lower leg muscle, numbness in the foot or leg, slapping" gait (feet hit the floor hard when walking), and weakness of the hips, legs, or feet. There is currently no cure for Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, but physical therapy, occupational therapy, braces and other orthopedic devices, pain medication, and orthopedic surgery can help manage and improve symptoms. There are over 40 types of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. You can search for more information on a particular type of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease from the GARD Home page. Enter the name of the condition in the GARD search box, and then select the type from the drop down menu.

Question: What is (are) De Barsy syndrome ?
Answer: De Barsy syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized mainly by a prematurely aged-looking face (progeria); cloudy corneas; short stature; and intellectual disability. Affected individuals can have a wide variety of other signs and symptoms, including loose skin folds due to reduced elasticity (cutis laxa); poor muscle tone (hypotonia); movement disorders; and other features that involve the eyes, face, skin and nervous system. The genetic cause of the condition is not known in most cases, but it is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment generally focuses on the signs and symptoms present in each individual and may include early eye surgery and physiotherapy to avoid contractures.

Question: What is (are) Sclerosing mucoepidermoid carcinoma with eosinophilia ?
Answer: Sclerosing mucoepidermoid carcinoma with eosinophilia (SMECE) is a type of cancer that most commonly affects the thyroid gland, but has been reported in the salivary gland as well. Signs and symptoms include a painless neck mass. Many people with mucoepidermoid carcinomas are women with Hashimoto's thyroiditis. The prevalence of SMECE is unknown, but only around 50 cases have been described in the medical literature. SMECE most commonly presents between 40 to 75 years of age. SMECE was initially considered a "low-grade" tumor, however cases of SMECE spreading locally to lymph nodes and to distant organs have been described. While data is limited, with treatment it appears that prognosis is typically good.

Question: What is (are) Jervell Lange-Nielsen syndrome ?
Answer: Jervell Lange-Nielsen syndrome is a form of long QT syndrome. Symptoms include deafness from birth, arrhythmia, fainting, and sudden death. There are two different types, Jervell Lange-Nielsen syndrome type 1 and 2. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion.

Question: What is (are) Centronuclear myopathy ?
Answer: Centronuclear myopathy refers to a group of rare, inherited conditions that affect the muscles. There are three main forms of the condition that are differentiated by their pattern of inheritance: X-linked Myotubular Myopathy Autosomal Dominant Centronuclear Myopathy Autosomal Recessive Centronuclear Myopathy The cause of the condition and the associated signs and symptoms vary by subtype. For more information, click on the link of interest above. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person and may include physical and/or occupational therapy and assistive devices to help with mobility, eating and/or breathing.

Question: What is (are) Marfan syndrome ?
Answer: Marfan syndrome is a disorder of the connective tissue. Connective tissue provides strength and flexibility to structures throughout the body such as bones, ligaments, muscles, walls of blood vessels, and heart valves. Marfan syndrome affects most organs and tissues, especially the skeleton, lungs, eyes, heart, and the large blood vessel that distributes blood from the heart to the rest of the body (the aorta). It is caused by mutations in the FBN1 gene, which provides instructions for making a protein called fibrillin-1. Marfan syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. At least 25% of cases are due to a new mutation. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive.

Question: What is (are) Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome ?
Answer: Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS) is a rare condition that is primarily characterized by orthostatic intolerance (an excessively reduced volume of blood returns to the heart when moving from a lying down to a standing position). Orthostatic Intolerance is generally associated with lightheadedness and/or fainting that is typically relieved by lying down again. In people with POTS, these symptoms are also accompanied by a rapid increase in heartbeat. Although POTS can affect men and women of all ages, most cases are diagnosed in women between the ages of 15 and 50. The exact underlying cause of POTS is currently unknown. However, episodes often begin after a pregnancy, major surgery, trauma, or a viral illness and may increase right before a menstrual period. Treatment aims to relieve low blood volume and/or regulate circulatory problems that could be causing the condition.

Question: What is (are) 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyric aciduria ?
Answer: 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyric aciduria is an inherited disorder in which the body cannot effectively process the amino acid isoleucine. Signs and symptoms of this condition usually develop in infancy or early childhood and include metabolic acidosis, hypoglycemia, hypotonia, seizures, movement problems, retinal degeneration, and hearing loss. Affected males have severe neurodegeneration with loss of developmental milestones, whereas females have mild to moderate developmental delay. 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyric aciduria is caused by mutations in the HSD17B10 gene; it has an X-linked dominant pattern of inheritance.

Question: What is (are) Fournier gangrene ?
Answer: Fournier gangrene refers to the death of body tissue of the genitals and/or perineum. Signs and symptoms of the condition include genital pain, tenderness, redness, and swelling with a rapid progression to gangrene. Although the condition can affect men and women of all ages, it is most commonly diagnosed in adult males. Most cases of Fournier gangrene are caused by an infection in the genital area or urinary tract. People with impaired immunity (i.e. due to diabetes or HIV) have an increased susceptibility to the condition. Treatment generally includes surgery and medications such as antibiotics and/or antifungal therapy.

Question: What is (are) Chromosome 7p deletion ?
Answer: Chromosome 7p deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the short arm (p) of chromosome 7. The severity of the condition and the signs and symptoms depend on the size and location of the deletion and which genes are involved. Features that often occur in people with chromosome 7p deletion include developmental delay, intellectual disability, behavioral problems, and distinctive facial features. Most cases are not inherited, but people can pass the deletion on to their children. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Virus associated hemophagocytic syndrome ?
Answer: Virus associated hemophagocytic syndrome is a very serious complication of a viral infection. Signs and symptoms of virus associated hemophagocytic syndrome, include high fever, liver problems, enlarged liver and spleen, coagulation factor abnormalities, decreased red or white blood cells and platelets (pancytopenia), and a build-up of histiocytes, a type of immune cell, in various tissues in the body resulting in the destruction of blood-producing cells (histiocytic proliferation with prominent hemophagocytosis).  Diagnosis is based upon the signs and symptoms of the patient. The cause of the condition is not known. Treatment is challenging and approach will vary depending on the age and medical history of the patient. Complications of this syndrome can become life threatening. Related conditions (conditions with overlapping signs and symptoms), include histiocytic medullary reticulosis (HMR), familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (FHL), and X-linked lymphoproliferative syndrome.

Question: What is (are) Opsismodysplasia ?
Answer: Opsismodysplasia is a rare skeletal dysplasia characterized by congenital short stature and characteristic craniofacial abnormalities. Clinical signs observed at birth include short limbs, small hands and feet, relative macrocephaly with a large anterior fontanel (the space between the front bones of the skull), and characteristic craniofacial abnormalities including a prominent brow, depressed nasal bridge, a small anteverted nose, and a relatively long philtrum. Children with opsismodysplasia are at an increased risk for respiratory infections and respiratory failure. This condition is caused by mutations in the INPPL1 the gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.

Question: What is (are) Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy ?
Answer: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy is a group of disorders which affect the voluntary muscles around the hips and shoulders. The conditions are progressive, leading to a loss of muscle strength and bulk over a number of years. Onset may occur in childhood, adolescence, young adulthood, or even later. Males and females are affected in equal numbers. Most forms of limb girdle muscular dystrophy are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Several rare forms are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. While there are no treatments which directly reverse the muscle weakness associated with this condition, supportive treatment can decrease the complications. There are at least 20 different types of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy.

Question: What is (are) Limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis ?
Answer: Limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis is a subtype of systemic sclerosis characterized by the association of Raynaud's phenomenon and skin fibrosis on the hands, face, feet and forearms. The exact cause of limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis is unknown, but likely originates from an autoimmune reaction which leads to overproduction of collagen. In some cases, the condition is associated with exposure to certain chemicals. Management is aimed at treating the symptoms present in each affected individual.

Question: What is (are) Coccygodynia ?
Answer: Coccygodynia is a rare condition in that causes pain in and around the coccyx (tailbone). Although various causes have been described for the condition, the more common causes are direct falls and injury.

Question: What is (are) Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome type 2 ?
Answer: Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome is a group of eye disorders that affects the development of the eye. Common eye symptoms include cornea defects, which is the clear covering on the front of the eye, and iris defects, which is the colored part of the eye. People with this syndrome may have an off-center pupil (corectopia) or extra holes in the eyes that can look like multiple pupils (polycoria). About 50% of people with this syndrome develop glaucoma, which is a serious condition that increases pressure inside of the eye. This may cause vision loss or blindness. Click here to view a diagram of the eye.  Even though Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome is primarily an eye disorder, this syndrome is also associated with symptoms that affect other parts of the body. Most people with this syndrome have distinctive facial features and many have issues with their teeth, including unusually small teeth (microdontia) or fewer than normal teeth (oligodontia). Some people have extra folds of skin around their belly button, heart defects, or other more rare birth defects. There are three types of Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome and each has a different genetic cause. Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome type 1 is caused by spelling mistakes (mutations) in the PITX2 gene. Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome type 3 is caused by mutations in the FOXC1 gene. The gene that causes Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome type 2 is not known, but it is located on chromosome 13. Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.

Question: What is (are) Epidermolysis bullosa simplex, generalized ?
Answer: Epidermolysis bullosa simplex, generalized is a form of epidermolysis bullosa, a group of genetic conditions that cause the skin to be fragile and blister easily. This disorder usually presents at birth or during infancy and results in widespread blisters over the body's surface. Though it is not a common feature of this type, scarring may occur. There may also be mild involvement of mucous membranes, fingernails and toenails, and localized thickening of the skin on the soles of the feet and the palms of the hands that increases with age. All four major types of epidermolysis bullosa simplex, including the genralized type, are caused by mutations in the KRT5 and KRT14 genes. This condition is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion.

Question: What is (are) Bilateral frontoparietal polymicrogyria ?
Answer: Bilateral frontoparietal polymicrogyria (BFPP) is a rare neurological disorder that affects the cerebral cortex (the outer surface of the brain). BFPP specifically affects the frontal and parietal lobes on both sides of the brain (bilateral). Signs and symptoms typically include moderate to severe intellectual disability, developmental delay, seizures, cerebellar ataxia, strabismus, and dysconjugate gaze (eyes that are not aligned). Some cases are caused by mutations in the GPR56 gene and are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Satoyoshi syndrome ?
Answer: Satoyoshi syndrome is a rare condition characterized by progressive, painful, intermittent muscle spasms, diarrhea or unusual malabsorption, amenorrhea, alopecia universalis, short stature, and skeletal abnormalities. Progressive painful intermittent muscle spasms usually start between 6 to 15 years of age. Alopecia universalis also appears around age 10. About half of affected individuals experience malabsorption, specifically of carbohydrates. The skeletal abnormalities may be secondary to muscle spasms. The main endocrine disorder is primary amenorrhea. All cases have apparently been sporadic, even when occurring in large families. The exact cause is unknown; but some researchers have speculated that Satoyoshi syndrome is an autoimmune disorder.

Question: What is (are) Fowler's syndrome ?
Answer: Fowlers syndrome is characterized by urinary retention associated with abnormal electromyographic activity in young women in the absence of overt neurologic disease. Some women with this syndrome have polycystic ovaries as well.

Question: What is (are) Myotonia congenita autosomal dominant ?
Answer: Myotonia congenita is a genetic condition characterized by the inability of the skeletal muscles to quickly relax after a voluntary movement.  The symptoms associated with the condition typically appear in childhood and vary from person to person. There are two forms of the disorder:  Becker type, which is the most common form; and Thomsen disease, which is a rare and milder form. Both conditions are caused by mutations in the CLCN1 gene.  However, the conditions have different modes of inheritance.  The Becker type is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion, and the Thomsen type is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.

Question: What is (are) Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1 ?
Answer: Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1 (PCH1) is a genetic condition that affects the development of the brain. Individuals with this condition have an unusually small and underdeveloped cerebellum, which is the part of the brain that coordinates movement. A region of the brain called the pons also fails to develop properly. The pons, which is located at the base of the brain in an area called the brainstem, transmits signals from the cerebellum to the rest of the brain. Individuals with PCH1 also experience a degeneration of the anterior horn cells. Because of the anterior horn cell involvement, this condition bears a resemblance to infantile spinal muscular atrophy, with severe muscle weakness. Other signs and symptoms of PCH1 include very weak muscle tone (hypotonia), joint deformities called contractures, a small head size (microcephaly), and breathing problems that are present at birth. Mutations in the VRK1 gene have been identified in at least one family with PCH1. The condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Most children with PCH1 live only into infancy.

Question: What is (are) Trichorhinophalangeal syndrome type 3 ?
Answer: Trichorhinophalangeal syndrome type 3 (TRPS3), also known as Sugio-Kajii syndrome, is an extremely rare inherited multisystem disorder. TRPS3 is characterized by short stature, sparse hair, a bulbous nasal tip and cone-shaped epiphyses (the growing ends of bones), as well as severe generalized shortening of all finger and toe bones (brachydactyly). The range and severity of symptoms may vary from case to case. TRPS3 is caused by mutations in the TRPS1 gene which is localized to 8q24.12. TRPS3 is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.

Question: What is (are) Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone ?
Answer: Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) occurs when an excessive amount of antidiuretic hormone is released resulting in water retention and a low sodium level. It is most common among older people. It has many causes including, but not limited too, pain, stress, exercise, a low blood sugar level, certain disorders of the heart, thyroid gland, kidneys, or adrenal glands, and the use of certain medications. Disorders of the lungs and certain cancers may increase the risk of developing SIADH. Treatment includes fluid restriction and sometimes the use of medications that decrease the effect of antidiuretic hormone on the kidneys.

Question: What is (are) Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma ?
Answer: Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma is a cancer that develops in the cells within the bile ducts; both inside and outside the liver. The terms cholangiocarinoma and bile duct cancer are often used to refer to the same condition. This condition occurs slightly more often in males than females and usually affects people who are between 50-70 years old. Signs and symptoms of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma include jaundice, abdominal pain, fever, weight loss, weakness and itching. Treatment options may include surgery to remove the bile duct and parts of the liver, chemotherapy and radiation.

Question: What is (are) Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 9 ?
Answer: Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 9 (CLN9-NCL) is a rare condition that affects the nervous system. Signs and symptoms of the condition generally develop in early childhood (average age 4 years) and may include loss of muscle coordination (ataxia), seizures that do not respond to medications, muscle twitches (myoclonus), visual impairment, and developmental regression (the loss of previously acquired skills). The underlying genetic cause of CLN9-NCL is unknown but it appears to be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment options are limited to therapies that can help relieve some of the symptoms.

Question: What is (are) Williams syndrome ?
Answer: Williams syndrome is a developmental disorder that affects many parts of the body. This condition is characterized by mild to moderate intellectual disability, unique personality characteristics, distinctive facial features, and heart and blood vessel (cardiovascular) problems. Williams syndrome is caused by missing genes from a specific region of chromosome 7. The deleted region includes more than 25 genes and researchers believe that a loss of several of these genes probably contributes to the characteristic features of this disorder. Although Williams syndrome is considered an autosomal dominant condition, most cases are not inherited, but occur as random events during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) in a parent of an affected individual.

Question: What is (are) Multiple pterygium syndrome Escobar type ?
Answer: Multiple pterygium syndrome, Escobar type is characterized by webbing of the neck, elbows, and/or knees, and joint contractures. Symptoms of Escobar syndrome are present from birth. It can be caused by mutations in the CHRNG gene. It tends to be inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion.

Question: What is (are) Femoral facial syndrome ?
Answer: Femoral-facial syndrome is characterized by underdevelopment of the thigh bones and certain facial features, which may include upslanting eyes, short nose with a broad tip, long space between the nose and upper lip (philtrum), thin upper lip, small or underdeveloped lower jaw (micrognathia), and cleft palate. Symptoms may affect one or both sides of the face and limbs. Cleft palate has been reported only in females. Other signs and symptoms occur variably. Intellectual development has been reported as normal. In most cases the cause of the condition is unknown (sporadic). Some cases have been reported in association with diabetes during pregnancy (maternal diabetes). There have been rare reports (three cases) describing a family with more than one affected member.

Question: What is (are) Mixed connective tissue disease ?
Answer: Mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) is a rare autoimmune disorder that is characterized by features commonly seen in three different connective tissue disorders: systemic lupus erythematosus, scleroderma, and polymyositis. Some affected people may also have symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. Although MCTD can affect people of all ages, it appears to be most common in women under age 30. Signs and symptoms vary but may include Raynaud's phenomenon; arthritis; heart, lung and skin abnormalities; kidney disease; muscle weakness, and dysfunction of the esophagus. The cause of MCTD is currently unknown. There is no cure but certain medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), corticosteroids and immunosuppresive drugs may help manage the symptoms.

Question: What is (are) Osteochondritis dissecans ?
Answer: Osteochondritis dissecans is a joint condition that occurs when a piece of cartilage and the thin layer of bone beneath it, separates from the end of the bone. If the piece of cartilage and bone remain close to where they detached, they may not cause any symptoms. However, affected people may experience pain, weakness and/or decreased range of motion in the affected joint if the cartilage and bone travel into the joint space. Although osteochondritis dissecans can affect people of all ages, it is most commonly diagnosed in people between the ages of 10 and 20 years. In most cases, the exact underlying cause is unknown. Rarely, the condition can affect more than one family member (called familial osteochondritis dissecans); in these cases, osteochondritis dissecans is caused by changes (mutations) in the ACAN gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Treatment for the condition varies depending on many factors, including the age of the affected person and the severity of the symptoms, but may include rest; casting or splinting; surgery and/or physical therapy.

Question: What is (are) Schindler disease type 1 ?
Answer: Schindler disease is an inherited condition that primarily causes neurological problems. There are three types of Schindler disease. Schindler disease type 1, also called the infantile type, is the most severe form. Babies with this condition appear healthy a birth, but by the age of 8 to 15 months they stop developing new skills and begin losing skills they had already acquired. As the condition progresses, affected individuals develop blindness and seizures, and eventually lose awareness of their surroundings and become unresponsive. People with this form of the condition usually don't survive past early childhood. Schindler disease type 1 is caused by mutations in the NAGA gene. The condition follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.

Question: What is (are) Biotinidase deficiency ?
Answer: Biotinidase deficiency is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to recycle the vitamin biotin. The disorder may become apparent in the first few months of life, or later in childhood. The more severe form of the disorder is called 'profound biotinidase deficiency' and may cause delayed development, seizures, weak muscle tone (hypotonia), breathing problems, hearing and vision loss, problems with movement and balance (ataxia), skin rashes, hair loss (alopecia), and a fungal infection called candidiasis. The milder form is called 'partial biotinidase deficiency'; without treatment, affected children may experience hypotonia, skin rashes, and hair loss. In some cases, these symptoms only appear during illness, infection, or other times of stress on the body. Biotinidase deficiency is caused by mutations in the BTD gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Lifelong treatment with biotin can prevent symptoms and complications from occurring or improve them if they have already developed.

Question: What is (are) Ellis-Van Creveld syndrome ?
Answer: Ellis-Van Creveld syndrome is an inherited condition that affects bone growth. Affected people generally have short stature; short arms and legs (especially the forearm and lower leg); and a narrow chest with short ribs. Other signs and symptoms may include polydactyly; missing and/or malformed nails; dental abnormalities; and congenital heart defects. More than half of people affected by Ellis-van Creveld syndrome have changes (mutations) in the EVC or EVC2 genes; the cause of the remaining cases is unknown. The condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Adenoid cystic carcinoma ?
Answer: Adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) is a rare form of adenocarcinoma, which is cancer that begins in gladular tissues. ACC most commonly arises in the head and neck, in various parts of the major and minor salivary glands including the palate, nasopharynx, lining of the mouth, voice box (larynx) or windpipe (trachea). It can also occur in the breast, uterus, or other locations in the body. Early symptoms depend on the tumor's location and may include lumps under the lining of the mouth or facial skin; numbness in the mouth or face; difficulty swallowing; hoarseness; pain; or paralysis of a facial nerve. ACC often has long periods with no growth followed by growth spurts; however, it can be aggressive in some people. ACC spreads along nerves or through the bloodstream, and only spreads to the lymph nodes in about 5-10% of cases. The cause of ACC is currently unknown. Treatment depends on many factors and may include surgery, radiation, and/or chemotherapy.

Question: What is (are) Ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency ?
Answer: Ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency is an inherited disorder that causes ammonia to accumulate in the blood. Ammonia, which is formed when proteins are broken down in the body, is toxic if the levels become too high. The nervous system is especially sensitive to the effects of excess ammonia. The signs and symptoms of OTC deficiency may include development delay, intellectual disability and liver problems. It is caused by changes (mutations) in the OTC gene. OTC deficiency is inherited as an X-linked condition. Treatment consists of not eating protein, taking certain medications and having hemodialysis, if needed.

Question: What is (are) Mycetoma ?
Answer: Mycetoma is a chronic infection that is caused by fungi or actinomycetes (bacteria that produce filaments, like fungi). The first symptom of the condition is generally painless swelling beneath the skin, which progresses to a nodule (lump) over several years. Eventually, affected people experience massive swelling and hardening of the affected area; skin rupture; and formation of sinus tracts (holes) that discharge pus and grains filled with organisms. Some affected people have no discomfort while others report itching and/or pain. Mycetoma is rare in the United States, but is commonly diagnosed in Africa, Mexico and India. In these countries, it occurs most frequently in farmers, shepherds, and people living in rural areas. Frequent exposure to penetrating wounds by thorns or splinters is a risk factor. Treatment varies based on the cause of the condition and may include antibiotics or antifungal medications.

Question: What is (are) Hypothalamic dysfunction ?
Answer: Hypothalamic dysfunction refers to a condition in which the hypothalamus is not working properly. The hypothalamus produces hormones that control body temperature, hunger, moods, release of hormones from many glands such as the pituitary gland, sex drive, sleep, and thirst. The signs and symptoms patients have vary depending on the hormones missing. A number of different causes including anorexia, bleeding, genetic disorder, tumors, and more have been linked to hypothalamic dysfunction. Treatment depends on the cause of the hypothalamic dysfunction.

Question: What is (are) Camurati-Engelmann disease ?
Answer: Camurati-Engelmann disease is a genetic condition that mainly affects the bones. People with this disease have increased bone density, particularly affecting the long bones of the arms and legs. In some cases, the skull and hip bones are also affected. The thickened bones can lead to pain in the arms and legs, a waddling walk, muscle weakness, and extreme tiredness. The age at which affected individuals first experience symptoms varies greatly; however, most people with this condition develop pain or weakness by adolescence. Camurati-Engelmann disease is caused by a mutation in the TGFB1 gene which is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. In some instances, people have the gene mutation that causes Camurati-Engelmann disease but never develop the characteristic features of this condition. In others, features are present, but a mutation cannot be identified. These cases are referred to as Camurati-Engelmann disease type II.  Treatment for Camurati-Engelman disease depends on many factors including the signs and symptoms present in each person and the severity of the condition.

Question: What is (are) Periventricular heterotopia ?
Answer: Periventricular heterotopia is a condition in which the nerve cells (neurons) do not migrate properly during the early development of the fetal brain from about the 6th week to the 24th week of pregnancy. Affected people typically develop recurrent seizures (epilepsy) beginning in mid-adolescence. Intelligence is generally normal; however, some affected people may have mild intellectual disability, including difficulty with reading and/or spelling. Less common signs and symptoms include microcephaly, developmental delay, recurrent infections, and blood vessel abnormalities. Some cases are caused by changes (mutations) in the FLNA gene and are inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Others are caused by mutations in the ARFGEF2 gene and are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Rarely, periventricular heterotopia is associated with duplication of genetic material on chromosome 5. Treatment is generally focused on managing recurrent seizures with medications.

Question: What is (are) Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome ?
Answer: Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome is a multisystem, genetic condition characterized by blood platelet dysfunction with prolonged bleeding, visual impairment, and abnormally light coloring of the skin, hair, and eyes (oculocutaneous albinism). Long-term sun exposure greatly increases the risk of skin damage and skin cancers. Some individuals have colitis, kidney failure, and pulmonary fibrosis. Symptoms of pulmonary fibrosis usually appear during the early thirties and rapidly worsen. This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive. There are nine different types of Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome, which can be distinguished by their signs and symptoms and underlying genetic cause. Types 1 and 4 are the most severe forms. Types 1, 2, and 4 are the only types associated with pulmonary fibrosis. Individuals with type 3, 5, or 6 have the mildest symptoms of all the types. Little is known about the signs, symptoms, and severity of types 7, 8 and 9.

Question: What is (are) Schistosomiasis ?
Answer: Schistosomiasis is a disease caused by parasitic worms. Although the worms that cause schistosomiasis are not found in the United States, more than 200 million people are infected worldwide. Infection occurs through contact with contaminated water. The parasite in its infective stages is called a cercaria. It swims freely in open bodies of water. On contact with humans, the parasite burrows into the skin, matures into another stage (schistosomula), then migrates to the lungs and liver, where it matures into the adult form. The adult worm then migrates to its preferred body part (bladder, rectum, intestines, liver, portal venous system (the veins that carry blood from the intestines to liver, spleen, lungs), depending on its species.  Schistosomiasis is common in many tropical and subtropical areas worldwide. It can be treated safely and effectively with praziquantel.

Question: What is (are) Herpes simplex encephalitis ?
Answer: Herpes simplex encephalitis is a rare neurological condition that is characterized by inflammation of the brain (encephalitis). People affected by this condition may experience a headache and fever for up to 5 days, followed by personality and behavioral changes; seizures; hallucinations; and altered levels of consciousness. Without early diagnosis and treatment, severe brain damage or even death may occur. Herpes simplex encephalitis is caused by a virus called the herpes simplex virus. Most cases are associated with herpes simplex virus type I (the cause of cold sores or fever blisters), although rare cases can be caused by herpes simplex virus type II (genital herpes). It is poorly understood why some people who are infected with herpes simplex virus develop herpes simplex encephalitis while others do not. Changes (mutations) in genes such as TLR3 and TRAF3 have been observed suggesting there may be a genetic component in some cases. Treatment consists of antiviral therapy.

Question: What is (are) Spina bifida occulta ?
Answer: Spina bifida occulta (SBO) occurs when the bones of the spinal column do not completely close around the developing nerves of the spinal cord. In most cases SBO causes no symptoms, however cases associated with back and urogenital problems have been reported. SBO has an estimated prevalence of 12.4%.

Question: What is (are) Afibrinogenemia ?
Answer: Afibrinogenemia, sometimes called congenital afibrinogenemia, is an inherited blood disorder in which the blood does not clot normally. It occurs when there is a lack (deficiency) of a protein called fibrinogen (or factor I), which is needed for the blood to clot. Affected individuals may be susceptible to severe bleeding (hemorrhaging) episodes, particularly during infancy and childhood. Afibrinogenemia is thought to be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.

Question: What is (are) Carpenter syndrome ?
Answer: Carpenter syndrome is a condition characterized by premature fusion of skull bones (craniosynostosis); finger and toe abnormalities; and other developmental problems. The features in affected people vary. Craniosynostosis can give the head a pointed appearance; cause asymmetry of the head and face; affect the development of the brain; and cause characteristic facial features. Other signs and symptoms may include dental abnormalities; vision problems; hearing loss; heart defects; genital abnormalities; obesity; various skeletal abnormalities; and a range of intellectual disability. Carpenter syndrome can be caused by mutations in the RAB23 or MEGF8 gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment focuses on the specific features in each affected person. Life expectancy is shortened but very variable.

Question: What is (are) Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ?
Answer: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), also referred to as "Lou Gehrig's disease," is a progressive motor neuron disease which leads to problems with muscle control and movement. There are various types of ALS, which are distinguished by their signs and symptoms and their cause. Early symptoms may include muscle twitching, cramping, stiffness, or weakness, eventually followed by slurred speech and difficulty chewing or swallowing (dysphagia). As the disease progresses, individuals become weaker are are eventually wheelchair-dependent. Death often results from respiratory failure within 2 to 10 years after the onset of symptoms. Most affected individuals have a sporadic (not inherited) form of ALS; about 5-10% have a familial (inherited) form of the condition. Familial ALS may caused by mutations in any one of several genes and the pattern of inheritance varies depending on the gene involved. Treatment is generally supportive.

Question: What is (are) Trigeminal neuralgia ?
Answer: Trigeminal neuralgia is a nerve disorder that causes a stabbing or electric-shock-like pain in parts of the face. The pain lasts a few seconds to a few minutes, and usually on only one side of the face. It can also cause muscle spasms in the face the same time as the pain. The pain may result from a blood vessel pressing against the trigeminal nerve (the nerve that carries pain, feeling, and other sensations from the brain to the skin of the face), as a complication of multiple sclerosis, or due to compression of the nerve by a tumor or cyst. In some cases, the cause is unknown. Treatment options include medicines, surgery, and complementary approaches.

Question: What is (are) Inclusion body myopathy 2 ?
Answer: Inclusion body myopathy 2, also known as hereditary inclusion body myopathy (HIBM), GNE-related myopathy,  distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles, and Nonaka myopathy, is an inherited condition that primarily affects the skeletal muscles (the muscles that the body uses to move). This disorder is characterized by muscle weakness that appears in late adolescence or early adulthood and worsens over time. Early symptoms typically develop in the 20s and 30s and may include difficulty running or walking, tripping, weakness in the index finger, and frequent loss of balance. Inclusion body myopathy 2 is caused by mutations in the GNE gene. The condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is focused on managing individual symptoms.

Question: What is (are) Pars planitis ?
Answer: Pars planitis is a disease of the eye that is characterized by inflammation of the narrowed area (pars plana) between the colored part of the eye (iris) and the choroid. This may lead to blurred vision; dark, floating spots in the vision; and progressive vision loss. As the condition advances, cataracts, retinal detachment, or macular edema (fluid within the retina) may develop. Pars planitis most often affects young men and is generally not associated with any other disease or symptoms (idiopathic); however, it can be associated with other autoimmune conditions such as multiple sclerosis and sarcoidosis. Treatment typically includes corticosteroid drugs, immunosuppressive medications, and/or surgery.

Question: What is (are) Myelomeningocele ?
Answer: Myelomeningocele is the most severe form of spina bifida. It happens when parts of the spinal cord and nerves come through the open part of the spine. It causes nerve damage and other disabilities. Seventy to ninety percent of children with this condition also have too much fluid on their brains (hydrocephalus). This happens because fluid that protects the brain and spinal cord is unable to drain like it should. The fluid builds up, causing pressure and swelling. Without treatment, a persons head grows too big, and they may have brain damage. Other disorders of the spinal cord may be seen, including syringomyelia and hip dislocation. The cause of myelomeningocele is unknown. However, low levels of folic acid in a woman's body before and during early pregnancy is thought to play a part in this type of birth defect.

Question: What is (are) Thiamine responsive megaloblastic anemia syndrome ?
Answer: Thiamine-responsive megaloblastic anemia syndrome is a very rare condition characterized by hearing loss, diabetes, and a blood disorder called megaloblastic anemia. Affected individuals begin to show symptoms of this condition between infancy and adolescence. This syndrome is called "thiamine-responsive" because the anemia can be treated with high doses of vitamin B1 (thiamine). This condition is caused by mutations in the SLC19A2 gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion.

Question: What is (are) Adult-onset vitelliform macular dystrophy ?
Answer: Adult-onset vitelliform macular dystrophy (AVMD) is an eye disorder that can cause progressive vision loss. AVMD affects an area of the retina called the macula, which is responsible for sharp central vision. The condition causes a fatty yellow pigment to accumulate in cells underlying the macula, eventually damaging the cells. Signs and symptoms usually begin between ages 30 and 50 and include blurred and/or distorted vision, which can progress to central vision loss over time.Historically, AVMD has been characterized as a genetic disorder caused by mutations in the PRPH2, BEST1, IMPG1, and IMPG2 genes; however, recent studies focused on genetic testing suggest that there may be other unidentified genes and/or environmental causes.The majority of cases due to a mutation in the identified genes are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner; however not all individuals have AVMD have a family history and not all individuals who inherit a causative gene mutation develop symptoms.

Question: What is (are) Familial amyloidosis, Finnish type ?
Answer: Familial amyloidosis, Finnish type, or gelsolin amyloidosis, is a condition characterized by abnormal deposits of amyloid protein that mainly affect the eyes, nerves and skin. The 3 main features are amyloid deposits in the cornea (corneal lattice dystrophy), bilateral facial paralysis, and cutis laxa ("sagging" skin). Symptoms generally worsen with age. This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner and is caused by mutations in the GSN gene. Treatment generally focuses on specific signs and symptoms. Plastic surgery may relieve problems caused by facial paralysis and cutis laxa.

Question: What is (are) Chromosome 8q deletion ?
Answer: Chromosome 8q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the long arm (q) of chromosome 8. The severity of the condition and the signs and symptoms depend on the size and location of the deletion and which genes are involved. Features that often occur in people with chromosome 8q deletion include developmental delay, intellectual disability, behavioral problems, and distinctive facial features. Most cases are not inherited, but people can pass the deletion on to their children. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Hemoglobin E disease ?
Answer: Hemoglobin E (HbE) disease is an inherited blood disorder characterized by an abnormal form of hemoglobin, called hemoglobin E. People with this condition have red blood cells that are smaller than normal and have an irregular shape. HbE disease is thought to be a benign condition. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern and is caused by a particular mutation in the HBB gene. The mutation that causes hemoglobin E disease has the highest frequency among people of Southeast Asian heritage (Cambodian, Laotian, Vietnamese and Thai). However, it is also found in people of Chinese, Filipino, Asiatic Indian, and Turkish descent.

Question: What is (are) Juvenile temporal arteritis ?
Answer: Juvenile temporal arteritis is a rare form of vasculitis, a group of conditions that cause inflammation of the blood vessels. Unlike the classic form of temporal arteritis, this condition is generally diagnosed in late childhood or early adulthood and only affects the temporal arteries (located at the lower sides of the skull, directly underneath the temple). Affected people often have no signs or symptoms aside from a painless nodule or lump in the temporal region. The exact underlying cause of the condition is unknown. It generally occurs sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. Juvenile temporal arteritis is often treated with surgical excision and rarely recurs.

Question: What is (are) Ring chromosome 20 ?
Answer: Ring chromosome 20 is a chromosome abnormality that affects the development and function of the brain. People with ring chromosome 20 often have recurrent seizures or epilepsy. Other symptoms might include intellectual disability, behavioral difficulties, growth delay, short stature, a small head (microcephaly), and characteristic facial features. Ring chromosome 20 is caused by an abnormal chromosome known as a ring chromosome 20 or r(20). A ring chromosome is a circular structure that occurs when a chromosome breaks in two places and its broken ends fuse together. Ring chromosome 20 is usually not inherited. It almost always occurs by chance during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. Treatment for ring chromosome 20 is focused on management of seizures and accommodations for learning.

Question: What is (are) Transient neonatal diabetes mellitus ?
Answer: Transient neonatal diabetes mellitus (TNDB) is a type of diabetes that appears within the first few weeks of life but is transient; affected infants go into remission within a few months, with possible relapse to permanent diabetes in adolescence or adulthood. Affected individuals have slow growth before birth followed by hyperglycemia, dehydration and failure to thrive in infancy. Approximately 70% of cases are caused by the overactivity of certain genes in a region of the long (q) arm of chromosome 6 called 6q24. These cases are referred to as 6q24-related TNDB; most (but not all) of these cases are not inherited. Other genetic causes include mutations in the KCNJ11 and ABCC8 genes, which usually cause permanent neonatal diabetes. Treatment may include rehydration and intravenous insulin at the time of diagnosis, followed by subcutaneous insulin.

Question: What is (are) Schwartz Jampel syndrome type 1 ?
Answer: Schwartz Jampel syndrome type 1 (SJS1) is a genetic disorder that affects bone and muscle development. Signs and symptoms may include muscle weakness and stiffness, abnormal bone development, joint contractures,  short stature, small, fixed facial features, and eye abnormalities (some of which may impair vision). SJS1 can be divided into two subtypes differentiated by severity and age of onset. Type 1A, considered classic SJS, is the most commonly recognized type. Individuals with type 1A typically develop more mild symptoms later in childhood, while individuals with type 1B have symptoms that are more severe and are apparent immediately after birth. SJS1 is caused by mutations in the HSPG2 gene which makes a protein called perlecan. SJS1 is thought to be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner; however, some cases reported in the medical literature suggest an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. Treatment for both type 1A and 1B aims to normalize muscle activity through various methods including massage and stretching, medications such as Botulinum toxin, and surgery.  There is a more severe, distinct condition called Stuve-Wiedemann syndrome which is caused by mutations in the LIFR gene. At one time cases of Stuve-Wiedemann syndrome were referred to as Neonatal Schwartz Jampel syndrome type 2. Click on the link above to learn more about this syndrome.

Question: What is (are) Pachyonychia congenita ?
Answer: Pachyonychia congenita (PC) is a rare inherited condition that primarily affects the nails and skin. The fingernails and toenails may be thickened and abnormally shaped. Affected people can also develop painful calluses and blisters on the soles of their feet and less frequently on the palms of their hands (palmoplantar keratoderma). Additional features include white patches on the tongue and inside of the mouth (leukokeratosis); bumps around the elbows, knees, and waistline (follicular hyperkeratosis); and cysts of various types including steatocystoma. Features may vary among affected people depending on their specific mutation. PC is divided into 5 types based on the specific keratin gene involved: PC-K6a, PC-K6b, PC-K6c, PC-K16, and PC-K17. All forms are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Lipedema ?
Answer: Lipedema is a syndrome characterized by symmetric enlargement of the legs due to deposits of fat beneath the skin, which is often painful.  It is a common condition affecting up to 11% of women  The underlying cause is currently unknown; however many people with lipedema have a family history of similarly enlarged legs. Hormones are also thought to play a role.

Question: What is (are) Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia Maroteaux type ?
Answer: Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia (SED) Maroteaux type is a rare skeletal dysplasia that is characterized by short stature beginning in infancy, short, stubby hands and feet, and genu valgum (knock knees). In addition to these physical characteristics, individuals with SED Maroteaux type have some common radiographic findings, including platyspondyly (flattened vertebral bodies in the spine), abnormalities of the pelvis and severe brachydactyly (short fingers and toes). Intelligence is generally normal and there is no clouding of the cornea, which distinguishes SED Maroteaux type from other forms of spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia. SED Maroteaux type is caused by mutations in the TRPV4 gene and is inherited any an autosomal dominant fashion.

Question: What is (are) Hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy ?
Answer: Hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy is a type of nervous system disease that affects the brachial plexus. Common signs and symptoms include episodes of severe pain and muscle wasting in one or both shoulders and arms.  Attacks may be spontaneous or triggered (e.g., by exercise, childbirth, surgery, infection etc.).  Secondary complications, such as decreased sensation, abnormal sensations (e.g., numbness and tingling), chronic pain, and impaired movement may develop overtime. Affected members in some families may share additional distinct physical and facial characteristics. Hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy can be caused by mutations in the SEPT9 gene.  It is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion.

Question: What is (are) Isodicentric chromosome 15 syndrome ?
Answer: Isodicentric chromosome 15 syndrome is a chromosome abnormality that affects many different parts of the body. As the name suggests, people with this condition have an extra chromosome (called an isodicentric chromosome 15) which is made of two pieces of chromosome 15 that are stuck together end-to-end. Although the severity of the condition and the associated features vary from person to person, common signs and symptoms include poor muscle tone in newborns; developmental delay; mild to severe intellectual disability; delayed or absent speech; behavioral abnormalities; and seizures. Most cases of isodicentric chromosome 15 syndrome occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Trismus-pseudocamptodactyly syndrome ?
Answer: Trismus-pseudocamptodactyly syndrome is a disorder of muscle development and function. It is characterized by short muscles and tendons resulting in limited range of motion of the hands, legs, and mouth. Both sporadic occurrence and autosomal dominant inheritance have been reported in the medical literature. The most serious complications of the condition occur as a result of the limited mobility of the mouth. Treatment may involve surgical correction and physical therapy.

Question: What is (are) Factor V Leiden thrombophilia ?
Answer: Factor V Leiden thrombophilia is an inherited disorder that results in an increased risk of developing abnormal blood clots. Factor V Leiden is the name of a specific gene mutation in the F5 gene. This gene plays a critical role in the normal formation of blood clots in response to an injury. People can inherit one or two copies of the factor V Leiden gene mutation. Those who inherit one copy are called heterozygotes. People who inherit two copies of the mutation, one from each parent, are called homozygotes. Having the factor V Leiden mutation increases your risk for developing a clot in your legs called a deep venous thrombosis (DVT). It also increases your risk of developing a clot that travels through the bloodstream and lodges in the lungs, called a pulmonary embolism (PE).

Question: What is (are) Loeys-Dietz syndrome ?
Answer: Loeys-Dietz syndrome is a connective tissue disorder that causes aortic aneurysms, widely spaced eyes (hypertelorism), cleft palate and/or split uvula (the little piece of flesh that hangs down in the back of the mouth) and twisting or spiraled arteries (arterial tortuosity). Other findings include craniosynostosis, extropia (eyes that turn outward), micrognathia, structural brain abnormalities, intellectual deficit, and congenital heart disease. Signs and symptoms vary among individuals. This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with variable clinical expression. This condition is called Loeys-Dietz syndrome type 1 when affected individuals have cleft palate, craniosynostosis, and/or hypertelorism. Individuals without these features are said to have Loeys-Dietz syndrome type 2. The disease is caused by mutations in the TGFBR1, the TGFBR2,  the SMAD3 or the TGFB2 genes. It is important to have an early and adequate treatment for the heart problems because the chance for aortic dissection and other vascular problems may be high in some patients. Many specialists may be involved for the best managment of the patient.

Question: What is (are) Ovarian sex cord tumor with annular tubules ?
Answer: An ovarian sex cord tumor with annular tubules (SCTAT) is a tumor that grows from cells in the ovaries known as sex cord cells.  As these cells grow, they form tube-like shapes in the tumor.  SCTATs can develop in one or both ovaries, and may cause symptoms such as puberty at an exceptionally young age (precocious puberty), irregular menstrual cycles, or post-menopausal bleeding.  Most ovarian SCTATs are benign. However, because there is a chance that an SCTAT may be malignant, treatment may include surgery to remove the tumor.

Question: What is (are) Michels syndrome ?
Answer: Michels syndrome is an extremely rare disorder characterized by the eyelid triad of blepharophimosis (a narrowing of the eye opening), blepharoptosis and epicanthus inversus (an upward fold of the skin of the lower eyelid near the inner corner of the eye), skeletal defects including craniosynostosis, cranial asymmetry, abnormality of the occipital bone (at the base of the skull), and radioulnar synostosis, cleft lip and palate, and mental deficiency. Only 10 cases have been reported in the medical literature. While the underlying cause of this condition remains unknown, it is believed to be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait.  Based on phenotypic overlap and autosomal recessive inheritance, some researchers have suggested that Michels, Malpuech, Carnevale and Mingarelli syndromes represent a spectrum and should be referred to a 3MC syndrome (for Malpuech-Michels-Mingarelli-Carnevale).

Question: What is (are) Chromosome 7q deletion ?
Answer: Chromosome 7q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the long arm (q) of chromosome 7. The severity of the condition and the signs and symptoms depend on the size and location of the deletion and which genes are involved. Features that often occur in people with chromosome 7q deletion include developmental delay, intellectual disability, behavioral problems, and distinctive facial features. Most cases are not inherited, but people can pass the deletion on to their children. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Membranous nephropathy ?
Answer: Membranous nephropathy is a kidney disease characterized by inflammation of the structures inside the kidney that help filter wastes and fluids. When the glomerular basement membrane becomes thickened, it does not work normally, allowing large amounts of protein to be lost in the urine. Symptoms develop gradually and may include swelling, fatigue, weight gain, and high blood pressure. In many cases, the underlying cause of membranous nephropathy is not known. Some cases are associated with other conditions (lupus), infections (hepatitis B and C), cancer or as a side effect of certain medications. The goal of treatment is to reduce symptoms and slow the progression of the disease.

Question: What is (are) Renal nutcracker syndrome ?
Answer: Renal nutcracker syndrome (NCS) is a condition that occurs when the left renal vein (the vein that carries blood purified by the left kidney) becomes compressed. The signs and symptoms of the condition can vary from person to person. Some affected people may be asymptomatic while others develop severe and persistent symptoms. When present, features of NCS may include blood in the urine (hematuria), orthostatic proteinuria, flank pain and/or abdominal pain. Some cases of mild NCS in children may be due to changes in body proportions associated with growth. Why NCS occurs or becomes symptomatic in adults is less clear. Treatment ranges from surveillance to surgical intervention and is based on the severity of symptoms and their expected reversibility when considering the affected person's age and stage of the syndrome.

Question: What is (are) Hereditary mucoepithelial dysplasia ?
Answer: Hereditary mucoepithelial dysplasia (HMD) is a condition that affects the skin, hair, mucosa (areas of the body that are lined with mucus), gums (gingiva), eyes, nose and lungs. Symptoms typically begin in infancy and may include development of cataracts (clouding of the eye lens); blindness; hair loss (alopecia); abnormal changes to the perineum (the area between the anus and external genitalia); and small, skin-colored bumps (keratosis pilaris). Terminal lung disease has also been reported. The cause of HMD is thought to be an abnormality in desmosomes and gap junctions, which are structures involved in cell-to-cell contact. HMD typically follows autosomal dominant inheritance, but has occurred sporadically (in an individual who has no family history of the condition). Treatment typically focuses on individual symptoms of the condition.

Question: What is (are) Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2F ?
Answer: Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2F (CMT2F) is a genetic disorder of the peripheral nerves. The subtypes of CMT type 2 (including type 2F) have similar features and are distinguished only by their disease-causing genes. Signs and symptoms usually begin between the ages of 5 and 25 and typically include slowly progressive weakness and atrophy of distal muscles in the feet and/or hands, usually associated with decreased tendon reflexes and mild or no sensory loss. Nerve conduction velocities are usually normal or near-normal. CMT2F is caused by mutations in the HSPB1 gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Management may include occupational and physical therapy; special shoes; surgery as needed; mobility aids; and other supportive treatments.

Question: What is (are) Metachromatic leukodystrophy ?
Answer: Metachromatic leukodystrophy is an inherited condition characterized by the accumulation of fats called sulfatides in cells, especially cells of the nervous system. This accumulation results in progressive destruction of white matter of the brain, which consists of nerve fibers covered by myelin. Affected individuals experience progressive deterioration of intellectual functions and motor skills, such as the ability to walk. They also develop loss of sensation in the extremities, incontinence, seizures, paralysis, inability to speak, blindness, and hearing loss. Eventually they lose awareness of their surroundings and become unresponsive. This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern and is caused by mutations in the ARSA and PSAP genes.

Question: What is (are) Pili torti ?
Answer: Pili torti is a rare hair condition characterized by fragile hair. In pili torti hair has a flattened shaft with clusters of narrow twists at irregular intervals. Some cases may be inherited in autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive patterns, while others are acquired. In the inherited form, symptoms tend to be present from early childhood. It can occur alone or as part of other diseases like ectodermal dysplasias, Menke disease, Bjornstand syndrome, or Bazex syndrome. Acquired cases of pili torti may be associated with anorexia nervosa, malnutrition, oral retinoid treatment, or inflammatory scalp conditions (e.g., cutaneous lupus erythematousus). If pili torti is detected, it is necessary to investigate possible neurological disorders, hearing loss, and defects in the hair, nails, sweat glands and teeth. There is no specific treatment for this condition, but it may improve spontaneously after puberty. Click here to visit Medscape and view an image of a child with pili torti.

Question: What is (are) Liddle syndrome ?
Answer: Liddle syndrome is a rare, inherited form of high blood pressure (hypertension). The condition is characterized by severe, early-onset hypertension associated with decreased levels of potassium, renin and aldosterone in blood plasma. Children usually have no symptoms; adults can present with symptoms of low potassium levels (hypokalemia) such as weakness, fatigue, muscle pain (myalgia), constipation or palpitations. It is caused by mutations in either the SCNN1B or SCNN1G genes and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Treatment may include a low sodium diet and potassium-sparing diuretics to reduce blood pressure and normalize potassium levels. Conventional anti-hypertensive therapies are not effective.

Question: What is (are) Hemangioendothelioma ?
Answer: The term hemangioendothelioma describes several types of vascular neosplasms and includes both non-cancerous (benign) and cancerous (malignant) growths. The term has also been applied to those that show "borderline" behavior, intermediate between entirely benign hemangiomas and highly malignant angiosarcomas. Hemangioendotheliomas are caused by abnormal growth of blood vessel cells, although the exact underlying cause for the abnormal growth is unknown. They can also develop in an organ, such as the liver or lung. They usually grow slowly and can sometimes spread to other tissues in the body (metastasize). Examples of types of hemangioendotheliomas include spindle cell hemangioma; papillary intralymphatic (Dabska tumor); retiform; kaposiform; epithelioid; pseudomyogenic (epithelioid sarcoma-like hemangioendothelioma); and composite. Treatment depends on the type of hemangioendothelioma present but typically includes surgical excision (removal).

Question: What is (are) Fetal and neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia ?
Answer: Fetal and neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia (NAIT) is a condition where a fetus or newborn experiences severe thrombocytopenia (low platelet count). NAIT occurs when the mother's immune system develops antibodies against antigens on the fetal platelets, which are inherited from the father and different from those present in the mother. These antibodies cross the placenta and can cause severe thrombocytopenia in the fetus. NAIT has been considered to be the platelet counterpart of Rh Hemolytic Disease of the Newborn (RHD). The incidence has been estimated at 1/800 to 1/1,000 live births. The spectrum of the disease may range from mild thrombocytopenia to life-threatening bleeding.

Question: What is (are) Congenital diaphragmatic hernia ?
Answer: Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is the lack of development before birth of all or part of the diaphragm, which normally separates the organs in the abdomen from those in the chest cavity. It can range in severity from a thinned area in the diaphragm to its complete absence. CDH may allow the stomach and intestines to move into the chest cavity, crowding the heart and lungs. This can then lead to underdevelopment of the lungs (pulmonary hypoplasia), potentially causing life-threatening complications. CDH has many different causes and occurs with other malformations in some cases. Treatment options depend on the severity of the defect.

Question: What is (are) Plasmablastic lymphoma ?
Answer: Plasmablastic lymphoma is an aggressive form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Although the condition most commonly occurs in the oral cavity, it can be diagnosed in many other parts of the body such as the gastrointestinal tract, lymph nodes, and skin. The exact underlying cause of plasmablastic lymphoma is poorly understood; however, it is often associated with suppression of the immune system (i.e. HIV infection, immunosuppressive therapy). There is currently no standard therapy for plasmablastic lymphoma. Treatment usually consists of chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

Question: What is (are) Familial stomach cancer ?
Answer: Familial stomach cancer is a cluster of stomach cancer within a family. Most cases of stomach cancer occur sporadically in people with little to no family history of the condition; however, approximately 10% of stomach cancer is considered "familial." Although the underlying cause of some familial cases is unknown, genetic changes (mutations) are identified in a subset of people affected by gastric cancer. Hereditary cancer syndromes associated with a predisposition to gastric cancer include hereditary diffuse gastric cancer, Lynch syndrome, Li-Fraumeni syndrome, familial adenomatous polyposis, and Peutz-Jeghers syndrome. In other families, the cluster of stomach cancers may be due to a combination of gene(s) and/or other shared factors such as environment and lifestyle. Depending on the estimated risk, high-risk cancer screening and/or prophylactic surgeries are typically recommended in people who have an increased risk for stomach cancer based on their personal and/or family histories.

Question: What is (are) Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis ?
Answer: Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL) refers to a group of conditions that affect the nervous system. Signs and symptoms vary widely between the forms but generally include a combination of dementia, vision loss, and epilepsy. Although the NCLs were historically classified according to their age of onset and clinical features, the most recent classification system is primarily based on their underlying genetic cause. Most forms are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner; however, autosomal dominant inheritance has been reported in one adult-onset form (neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 4B). Treatment options are limited to therapies that can help relieve some of the symptoms.

Question: What is (are) Oral lichen planus ?
Answer: Oral lichen planus is a inflammatory condition that affects the inside of the mouth.  Signs and symptoms include patches of fine white lines and dots most commonly in the inside of the cheeks, gums, and/or tongue. Most people with lichen planus experience no to few symptoms, others may have painful sores or ulcers in the mouth. Severe lichen planus slightly increases the risk for oral cancer. Oral lichen planus may occur alone or in combination with other skin forms of lichen planus.

Question: What is (are) Warm antibody hemolytic anemia ?
Answer: Warm antibody hemolytic anemia is the most common form of autoimmune hemolytic anemia. It is defined by the presence of  autoantibodies that attach to and destroy red blood cells at temperatures equal to or greater than normal body temperature. The disease is characterized by symptoms related to anemia, including fatigue, difficulty breathing, jaundice and dark urine. In severe disease, fever, chest pain, syncope or heart failure may occur. Hemolysis (the breakdown of red blood cells) occurs mainly in the spleen, so mild splenomegaly is relatively common. Treatment typically involves a corticosteroid like prednisone. In cases that don't respond to treatment, splenectomy may be considered. Chronic and severe disease may be treated with Rituximab or immunosuppressive medications.

Question: What is (are) Juvenile-onset dystonia ?
Answer: Juvenile-onset dystonia is a form of dystonia, which is a movement disorder characterized by involuntary muscle contractions that cause repetitive movements and/or abnormal postures. The severity and frequency of the movements vary significantly; in some affected people, they may be barely noticeable while in others, the movements are severely disabling and painful. Dystonia can affect just one muscle, a group of muscles or all muscles of the body. Other signs and symptoms of the condition may include a tremor or other neurologic features. In juvenile-onset dystonia, specifically, affected people develop features of the condition between the ages of 13 and 20 years. The underlying cause of juvenile-onset dystonia is poorly understood in most cases. Changes (mutations) in the ACTB gene that are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner have been identified in some families with the condition. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person and may include medications, surgery, physical therapy, and other treatments to reduce or eliminate muscle spasms and pain.

Question: What is (are) Infectious arthritis ?
Answer: Infectious arthritis is joint pain, soreness, stiffness and swelling caused by a bacterial, viral, or fungal infection that spreads from another part of the body. Depending on the type of infection, one or more joints may be affected. Certain bacteria can cause a form of infectious arthritis called reactive arthritis, which appears to be caused by the immune system reacting to bacteria, rather than by the infection itself. In reactive arthritis, joint inflammation develops weeks, months or even years after the infection. Reactive arthritis happens most commonly after infections of the genital and gastrointestinal tracts. To diagnose infectious arthritis, your health care provider may do tests of your blood, urine, and joint fluid. Treatment includes medicines and sometimes surgery.

Question: What is (are) Pilocytic astrocytoma ?
Answer: Pilocytic astrocytoma is an often benign, slow-growing tumor of the brain or spinal cord. The tumor may be in the form of a cyst and usually does not spread to nearby tissues. Symptoms vary depending upon the size and location of the tumor. Most symptoms result from increased pressure on the brain and include headaches, nausea, vomiting, balance problems, and vision abnormalities. The underlying cause of a pilocytic astrocytoma is unknown. It most commonly occurs in children and young adults, and in people with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1), Li-Fraumeni syndrome, and tuberous sclerosis. This type of tumor can often be cured with surgery.

Question: What is (are) Sturge-Weber syndrome ?
Answer: Sturge-Weber syndrome is a rare disorder that is present at birth. Affected individuals have a large port-wine stain birthmark on their face, which is caused by blood vessel abnormalities. People with Sturge-Weber syndrome also develop blood vessel abnormalities in the brain called leptomeningeal angiomas. Other features of this syndrome include glaucoma, seizures, muscle weakness, paralysis, developmental delay, and intellectual disability. Sturge-Weber syndrome is caused by a mutation in the GNAQ gene. The gene mutation is not inherited, but occurs by chance in cells of the developing embryo.

Question: What is (are) Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 ?
Answer: Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN1) is an inherited condition that causes tumors of the endocrine system (the body's network of hormone-producing glands). People affected by MEN1 typically develop tumors of the parathyroid gland, the pituitary gland, and the pancreas, although other glands may be involved as well. These tumors are often "functional" and secrete excess hormones, which can cause a variety of health problems. The most common signs and symptoms of MEN1 are caused by hyperparathyroidism (overactive parathyroid gland) and may include kidney stones; thinning of bones; nausea and vomiting; high blood pressure (hypertension); weakness; and fatigue. MEN1 is caused by changes (mutations) in the MEN1 gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Management for MEN1 usually includes regular screening to allow for early diagnosis and treatment of endocrine tumors.

Question: What is (are) Beare-Stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome ?
Answer: Beare-Stevenson  cutis gyrata syndrome is a genetic condition characterized by skin abnormalities (cutis gyrata, which causes a furrowed and wrinkled appearance, and acanthosis nigricans) and the premature fusion of certain bones of the skull (craniosynostosis). This early fusion prevents the skull from growing normally and affects the shape of the head and face. Beare-Stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome is caused by mutations in the FGFR2 gene. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, although all reported cases have resulted from new mutations in the gene and occurred in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: What is (are) Cerulean cataract ?
Answer: Cerulean cataracts are opaque areas that develop in the lens of the eye that often have a bluish or whitish color. They may be present at birth or develop in very early childhood, but may not be diagnosed until adulthood. They are usually bilateral and progressive. Infants can be asymptomatic, but may also be visually impaired from birth and develop nystagmus and amblyopia. In adulthood, the cataracts may progress, making lens removal necessary. Cerulean cataracts may be caused by mutations in several genes, including the CRYBB2, CRYGD, and MAF genes, and are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. No treatment is known to prevent cerulean cataracts, but frequent evaluations and cataract surgery are typically required to prevent amblyopia as the opacities progress.

Question: What is (are) Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, progeroid type ?
Answer: Ehlers-Danlos syndrome progeroid type is a genetic disorder of the connective tissue, which is the material between the cells of the body that gives tissues form and strength. The disorder primarily affects the skin, hair, and skeletal system. Symptoms usually show up by childhood or adolescence. Like people with other types of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, individuals with the progeroid form have unusually flexible joints, loose elastic skin, and easy scarring. Features that are unique to this type include sparse scalp hair and eyebrows, and loose elastic skin on the face; these features cause affected individuals to look older than their age. Additional symptoms may include bone weakness, weak muscle tone, mild intellectual disability, and delayed growth in affected children. The progeroid type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome is caused by mutations in the B4GALT7 gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.

Question: What is (are) Gray platelet syndrome ?
Answer: Gray platelet syndrome (GPS) is a rare inherited bleeding disorder characterized by platelets that have a gray appearance, severe thrombocytopenia, myelofibrosis, and splenomegaly. About 60 cases from various populations around the world have been described in the literature to date. GPS results from the absence or reduction of alpha-granules in platelets, which store proteins that promote platelet adhesiveness and wound healing when secreted during an injury. GPS is caused by mutations in the NBEAL2 gene and inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.

Question: What is (are) Pterygium of the conjunctiva and cornea ?
Answer: Pterygium of the conjunctiva and cornea is a benign (non-cancerous) pink lesion that grows from the conjunctiva onto the cornea. They typically start from on the inner surface of the eye, and grow toward the the pupil. Long term exposure to ultraviolet light has been associated with causing this condition. Depending on the size of the pterygium, a person can experience vision problems. Surgical removal of the pterygium is often not needed unless it is causing irritation or vision loss.

Question: What is (are) Pearson syndrome ?
Answer: Pearson syndrome is a mitochondrial disorder characterized by transfusion-dependent sideroblastic anemia and pancreatic dysfunction resulting in in malabsorption and chronic diarrhea. The features of this progressive disorder may change over time. Individuals who survive beyond infancy often develop the symptoms of Kearns-Sayre syndrome or Leigh syndrome. Pearson syndrome is caused by deletions in mitochondrial DNA. Inheritance is usually sporadic.

Question: What is (are) Brown-Sequard syndrome ?
Answer: Brown-Sequard syndrome is a rare neurological condition characterized by a lesion in the spinal cord. This condition results in weakness or paralysis on one side of the body (hemiparaplegia) and a loss of sensation  on the opposite side (hemianesthesia). Brown-Sequard syndrome may be caused by a spinal cord tumor, trauma (such as a puncture wound to the neck or back), obstructed blood vessel, or infectious or inflammatory diseases such as tuberculosis, or multiple sclerosis. Treatment and prognosis depends on the underlying cause of the condition.

Question: What is (are) Neurofibromatosis ?
Answer: Neurofibromatosis (NF) is a genetic condition that causes tumors to develop in the nervous system. There are three types of neurofibromatosis that are each associated with unique signs and symptoms: Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) causes skin changes (cafe-au-lait spots, freckling in armpit and groin area); bone abnormalities; optic gliomas; and tumors on the nerve tissue or under the skin. Signs and symptoms are usually present at birth. Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) causes acoustic neuromas; hearing loss; ringing in the ears; poor balance; brain and/or spinal tumors; and cataracts at a young age. It often starts in the teen years. Schwannomatosis causes schwannomas, pain, numbness, and weakness. It is the rarest type. All three types of NF are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. There is no cure for neurofibromatosis. Treatment is aimed at controlling symptoms and may include surgery to remove tumors, radiation therapy and/or medicines.

Question: What is (are) CHILD syndrome ?
Answer: CHILD syndrome, also known as congenital hemidysplasia with ichthyosiform erythroderma and limb defects, is a genetic condition that is typically characterized by large patches of skin that are red and inflamed (erythroderma) and covered with flaky scales (ichthyosis) and limb underdevelopment or absence. The development of organs such as the brain, heart, lungs, and kidneys may also be affected. Several cases in which milder signs and symptoms have been reported in the medical literature. The condition is caused by mutations in the NSDHL gene, a gene that provides instructions for the production of an enzyme involved in the making of cholesterol. CHILD syndrome is inherited in an X-linked dominant fashion and is almost exclusively found in females.

Question: What is (are) IBIDS syndrome ?
Answer: Tay syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by congenital ichthyosis (dry, fish-like scaly skin present at birth) and abnormal brittle hair (trichothiodystrophy).

Question: What is (are) Muscular dystrophy, congenital, merosin-positive ?
Answer: The congenital muscle dystrophies are currently classified according to the genetic defects. Historically, congenital muscular dystrophies were classified in two broad groups: Classic CMD (which included the Merosin-deficient CMD and the Merosin-positive CMD) and the CMD with central nervous system (CNS) abnormalities (Fukuyama CMD, muscle-eye-brain disease and Walker-Warburg syndrome). Therefore, merosin-positive congenital muscle dystrophy (CMD) is now considered an old term which refers to a group of diseases without structural brain abnormalities that are caused by a variety of gene mutations, resulting in protein defects that do not affect the merosin protein. It usually has a milder phenotype than the merosin-negative CMD dystrophy group and includes, among others: Classic CMD without distinguishing features Rigid spine syndrome associated with mutations in the selenoprotein N1 gene (SEPN1) CMD with hyperextensible distal joints (Ullrich type) CMD with intellectual disability or sensory abnormalities. The pattern of muscle weakness and wasting in the patients within this group of congenital muscular dystrophy conditions is worse in the proximal upper limb-girdle and trunk muscles. Lower limb muscles may be mildly involved. Muscle biopsy shows a dystrophic pattern with normal staining for dystrophin, laminin alpha-2 of merosin and the sarcoglycans.

Question: What is (are) Pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism ?
Answer: Pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism (PPHP) is an inherited condition that causes short stature, round face, and short hand bones. PPHP causes joints and other soft tissues in the body to harden. It also affects how bones are formed. As a result, PPHP can cause bone, joint, and nerve damage, and this damage can cause lasting pain. Some people with PPHP (10%) also have learning disability. PHPP is caused by mutations in the GNAS gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. This condition is usually inherited from the father (genomic imprinting). PPHP is genetically related to pseudohypoparathyroidism type Ia (PHP-1a). Signs and symptoms are similar, however people with PPHP do not show resistance to parathyroid hormone while people with PHP-1a do. Obesity is characteristic for PHP-1a and may be severe, while obesity is less prominent and may be absent among people with PPHP. Both PHP-1a and PPHP are caused by mutations that affect the function of the GNAS gene. But people who inherit the mutation from their mother develop PHP-1a; whereas those who inherit the mutation from their father develop PPHP.

Question: What is (are) Pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta ?
Answer: Pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta (PLEVA) is the acute form of a skin condition called pityriasis lichenoides. Affected people generally develop a few to more than one hundred scaling papules which may become filled with blood and/or pus or erode into crusted red-brown spots. PLEVA generally resolves on its own within a few weeks to a few months; however, some people experience episodes of the condition on and off for years. Although PLEVA is diagnosed in people of all ages, it most commonly affects children and young adults. The exact underlying cause is unknown, but some scientists suspect that it may occur due to an exaggerated immune response or an overproduction of certain white blood cells (lymphoproliferative disorder). If treatment is necessary, recommended therapies may include oral antibiotic, sun exposure, topical steroids, immunomodulators (medications used to help regulate or normalize the immune system), phototherapy and/or systemic steroids.

Question: What is (are) Konigsmark Knox Hussels syndrome ?
Answer: Konigsmark Knox Hussels syndrome is an inherited condition that causes both hearing and vision loss. This condition is characterized by late-onset progressive sensorineural deafness and progressive optic atrophy, which results in mildly reduced visual acuity. Some affected individuals can develop ophthalmoplegia (paralysis of the muscles that control eye movements), ptosis, ataxia, and non-specific myopathy in middle age. This condition is caused by a particular mutation in the OPA1 gene and is inerited in an autosomal dominant fashion.

Question: What is (are) Prune belly syndrome ?
Answer: Prune belly syndrome, also called Eagle-Barrett syndrome, is a condition characterized by three main features: (1) a lack of abdominal muscles, causing the skin on the belly area to wrinkle and appear "prune-like";  (2) undescended testicles in males; and (3) urinary tract problems. The incidence of prune belly syndrome (PBS) is 1 in 40,000 births; 95% of cases occur in boys. The severity of symptoms in infants with prune belly syndrome can vary greatly from child to child.  At one end of the spectrum, the condition may cause severe urogenital and pulmonary problems incompatible with life (resulting in stillbirth); at the other end of the spectrum, the condition may cause few, if any, urological abnormalities that require no treatment other than  undescended testicle repair in males. The cause of the condition is unknown.

Question: What is (are) Lung adenocarcinoma ?
Answer: Lung adenocarcinoma is a cancer that occurs due to abnormal and uncontrolled cell growth in the lungs. It is a subtype of non-small cell lung cancer that is often diagnosed in an outer area of the lung. Early lung cancers may not be associated with any signs and symptoms. As the condition progresses, affected people can experience chest pain, a persistent cough, fatigue, coughing up blood, loss of appetite, unexplained weight loss, shortness of breath, and/or wheezing. The underlying cause of lung adenocarcinoma is generally unknown; however, risk factors for developing a lung cancer include smoking; exposure to secondhand smoke and other toxic chemicals; a family history of lung cancer; previous radiation treatment to the chest or breast; and HIV infection. Treatment varies based on the severity of the condition, the associated signs and symptoms and the affected person's overall health. It may include a combination of surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, targeted therapy, and/or watchful waiting.

Question: What is (are) Autosomal recessive hyper IgE syndrome ?
Answer: Autosomal recessive hyper IgE syndrome (AR-HIES) is a very rare primary immunodeficiency syndrome characterized by highly elevated blood levels of immunoglobulin E (IgE), recurrent staphylococcal skin abscesses, and recurrent pneumonia. The same features are also seen in the more frequent autosomal dominant HIES syndrome. AR-HIES accounts for only a small minority of HIES cases, with about 130 affected families reported so far. In contrast to AD-HIES, the AR variant is further characterized by extreme hypereosinophilia (increase in the eosinophil count in the bloodstream); susceptibility to viral infections such as Herpes simplex and Molluscum contagiosum; involvement of the central nervous system; T-cell defects; and a high death rate. The dental, skeletal, connective tissue, and facial features present in AD-HIES are absent in AR-HIES. AR-HIES is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion and is caused by mutations in the DOCK8 gene.

Question: What is (are) Arts syndrome ?
Answer: Arts syndrome is characterized by sensorineural hearing loss and serious neurological and immune system problems in males. Females can also be affected by this condition, but they typically have much milder symptoms. Arts syndrome is caused by mutations in the PRPS1 gene which is located on the X chromosome. It is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner.

Question: What is (are) Fibrolamellar carcinoma ?
Answer: Fibrolamellar carcinoma (FLC) is a rare form of liver cancer which is generally diagnosed in adolescents and young adults (before age 40). Many people with early FLC have no signs or symptoms of the condition. When present, symptoms are often nonspecific (i.e. abdominal pain, weight loss, malaise) and blamed on other, more common conditions. The exact underlying cause of FLC is poorly understood. Unlike other forms of liver cancer, FLC typically occurs in the absence of underlying liver inflammation or scarring; thus, specific risk factors for this condition remain unidentified. FLC is typically treated with surgical resection.

Question: What is (are) Split hand split foot nystagmus ?
Answer: Split hand split foot nystagmus is a rare congenital syndrome characterized by split hand and split foot deformity and eye abnormalities, especially nystagmus. It is thought to have an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance. Currently, the underlying genetic defect has not been identified. The outlook for children with this condition is good.

Question: What is (are) Congenital deafness with vitiligo and achalasia ?
Answer: Congenital deafness with vitiligo and achalasia is a syndrome characterized by deafness present from birth (congenital), associated with short stature, vitiligo, muscle wasting and achalasia (swallowing difficulties). The condition was described in a brother and sister born to first cousin parents. It is believed to be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.

Question: What is (are) Situs inversus ?
Answer: Situs inversus is a condition in which the arrangement of the internal organs is a mirror image of normal anatomy. It can occur alone (isolated, with no other abnormalities or conditions) or it can occur as part of a syndrome with various other defects. Congenital heart defects are present in about 5-10% of affected people. The underlying cause and genetics of situs inversus are complex. Familial cases have been reported.

Question: What is (are) Pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy ?
Answer: Pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy is a condition that involves seizures beginning in infancy or, in some cases, before birth. Those affected typically experience prolonged seizures lasting several minutes (status epilepticus). These seizures involve muscle rigidity, convulsions, and loss of consciousness (tonic-clonic seizures). Anticonvulsant drugs, which are usually given to control seizures, are ineffective in people with pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy. Instead, people with this type of seizure are medically treated with large daily doses of pyridoxine (a type of vitamin B6 found in food). Mutations in the ALDH7A1 gene cause pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy. This gene is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion.

Question: What is (are) Ankylosing spondylitis ?
Answer: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a type of chronic, inflammatory arthritis that mainly affects the spine. It usually begins with inflammation of the joints between the pelvic bones and spine, gradually spreading to the joints between the vertebrae. Signs and symptoms usually begin in adolescence or early adulthood and may include back pain and stiffness. Back movement gradually becomes more limited as the vertebrae fuse together. The condition may also affect the shoulders; ribs; hips; knees; and feet; as well as the eyes; bowel; and very rarely, the heart and lungs. AS is likely caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors; variations in several genes are thought to affect the risk to develop AS. In most cases, treatment involves exercise and medications to relieve pain and inflammation.

Question: What is (are) Wolman disease ?
Answer: Wolman disease is a type of lysosomal storage disorder. It is an inherited condition that causes a buildup of lipids (fats) in body organs and calcium deposits in the adrenal glands. Common symptoms in infants include enlarged liver and spleen, poor weight gain, low muscle tone, jaundice, vomiting, diarrhea, developmental delay, anemia, and poor absorption of nutrients from food. Wolman disease is caused by mutations in the LIPA gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. The condition is severe and life-threatening, however new therapies, such as bone marrow transplantation, have shown promise in improving the outlook of children with this disease. Enzyme replacement therapy is also being developed.

Question: What is (are) Idiopathic neutropenia ?
Answer: Idiopathic neutropenia is an acquired form of severe chronic neutropenia whose cause is unknown. Neutropenia is a blood condition that causes a reduced number or complete absence of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell that is responsible for much of the body's protection against infection. Symptoms include fever, moth sores, and other types of infections. Neutropenia idiopathic may occur in children and adults. Frequency and severity of infections appear to be directly related to neutrophil count; while clinical problems in individual patients may vary, in general, those patients with more severe neutropenia have more frequent infections. Most patients respond well to granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF). Long-term treatment is usually required.

Question: What is (are) Wandering spleen ?
Answer: Wandering spleen is a rare condition that occurs when the spleen lacks one or more of the ligments that hold the spleen in its normal position in the upper left abdomen. If a person is born with this condition it is referred to as congenital wandering spleen. The condition is not hereditary. Acquired wandering spleen may occur during adulthood due to injuries or other underlying conditions that may weaken the ligaments that hold the spleen. Symptoms of wandering spleen may include englargement of the spleen (splenomegaly), abdominal pain, intestinal obstruction, nausea, vomiting, fever, and a lump in the abdomen or the pelvis. Some individuals with this condition do not have symptoms. Treatment for this condition involes removal of the spleen (splenectomy).

Question: What is (are) Silicosis ?
Answer: Silicosis is a respiratory disease caused by breathing in (inhaling) silica dust. There are three types of silicosis: Simple chronic silicosis, the most common type of silicosis, results from long-term exposure (usually more than 20 years) to low amounts of silica dust. Simple chronic silicosis may cause people to have difficulty breathing.  Accelerated silicosis occurs after 5 to 15 years of exposure of higher levels of silica. Swelling of the lungs and other symptoms occur faster in this type of silicosis than in the simple chronic form.  Acute silicosis results from short-term exposure (weeks or months) of large amounts of silica. The lungs become very inflamed and can fill with fluid, causing severe shortness of breath and low blood oxygen levels. A cough, weight loss, and fatigue may also be present. Acute silicosis progresses rapidly and can be fatal within months.  People who work in jobs where they are exposed to silica dust (mining, quarrying, construction, sand blasting, stone cutting) are at risk of developing this condition.

Question: What is (are) Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome type 4 ?
Answer: Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome is an inherited condition that mainly affects the brain, immune system, and skin. It is characterized by early-onset severe brain dysfunction (encephalopathy) that usually results in severe intellectual and physical disability. Additional symptoms may include epilepsy, painful, itchy skin lesion (chilblains), vision problems, and joint stiffness. Symptoms usually progress over several months before the disease course stabilizes. There are six different types of Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome, which are distinguished by the gene that causes the condition: TREX1, RNASEH2A, RNASEH2B, RNASEH2C, SAMHD1, and ADAR genes. Most cases are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, although rare autosomal dominant cases have been reported. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive.

Question: What is (are) Ulcerative proctitis ?
Answer: Ulcerative proctitis is a type of ulcerative colitis that affects the rectum. The symptoms of this form of proctitis may include bleeding from the rectum, the need to go to the bathroom frequently, tenesmus, diarrhea or constipation, and rectal pain. People with ulcerative proctitis tend to have episodes when the symptoms worsen and periods without symptoms, although the course of the disease varies among affected individuals. Treatment involves applying 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) or steroid creams to the rectum. In some cases, an oral version of 5-ASA is used to prevent episodes.

Question: What is (are) Leukoplakia ?
Answer: Leukoplakia is a condition in which thickened, white patches form on the tongue, gums, inside of the cheek, or sometimes on the outer female genitals. Although the sores can vary in appearance, they are usually white or gray; thick; and slightly raised with a hard surface. The condition is thought to be caused by irritation, but the cause is not always known. Tobacco is considered to be the main cause of its development in the mouth. Most patches are benign, but a small percentage show early signs of cancer. Removing the source of irritation may cause the condition to go away, but surgery to remove the sore(s) may be necessary in some cases.

Question: What is (are) Eosinophilic fasciitis ?
Answer: Eosinophilic fasciitis is a very rare condition in which muscle tissue underneath the skin, called fascia, becomes swollen and thick. Rapid swelling can occur in the hands, arms, legs, and feet. People with this condition have a buildup of eosinophils, a type of white blood cell, in the affected fascia and muscles. The exact cause of this condition is unknown. Corticosteroids and other immune-suppressing medications are used to relieve the symptoms. Eosinophilic fasciitis is similar in appearance to scleroderma but is not related.

Question: What is (are) Oculocutaneous albinism ?
Answer: Oculocutaneous albinism is a group of conditions that affect the coloring of the hair and eyes.  Individuals affected by oculocutaneous albinism have very light skin and light-colored irises; they may also have vision problems such as decreased sharpness of vision, rapid eye movements (nystagmus), crossed eyes (strabismus), or increased sensitivity to light (photophobia).  All types of oculocutaneous albinism are caused by gene mutations that are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.  Treatment includes covering the skin from sun exposure by using sunscreen and protective clothing and attending to vision problems by wearing glasses.

Question: What is (are) Polycystic liver disease ?
Answer: Polycystic liver disease is an inherited condition characterized by many cysts of various sizes scattered throughout the liver. Abdominal discomfort from swelling of the liver may occur; however, most affected individuals do not have any symptoms. In some cases, polycystic liver disease appears to occur randomly, with no apparent cause. Most cases are inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. Sometimes, cysts are found in the liver in association with the presence of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (AD-PKD). In fact, about half of the people who have AD-PKD experience liver cysts. However, kidney cysts are uncommon in those affected by polycystic liver disease.

Question: What is (are) CDKL5-related disorder ?
Answer: A CDKL5-related disorder is a genetic, neuro-developmental condition due to changes (mutations) in the CDKL5 gene. Epileptic encephalopathy (epilepsy accompanied by cognitive and behavioral problems) is the core symptom of a CDKL5-related disorder. Seizures typically begin before 5 months of age. Affected people often have severe intellectual disability with absent speech, and features that resemble Rett syndrome such as hand stereotypies (repetitive movements) and slowed head growth. CDKL5-related disorders have more commonly been reported in females. The inheritance pattern is X-linked dominant. Almost all reported cases have been due to a new mutation in the affected person; one family with 3 affected members has been described. Treatment is symptomatic. In the past, mutations in the CDKL5 gene have been found in people diagnosed with infantile spasms and/or West syndrome; Lennox-Gastaut syndrome; Rett syndrome; a form of atypical Rett syndrome known as the early-onset seizure type; and autism. However, it has more recently been suggested that CDKL5 mutations cause a separate, specific disorder with features that may overlap with these conditions.

Question: What is (are) Spinocerebellar ataxia 2 ?
Answer: Spinocerebellar ataxia 2 (SCA2) is a progressive disorder that causes symptoms including uncoordinated movement (ataxia), speech and swallowing difficulties, muscle wasting, slow eye movement, and sometimes dementia. Signs and symptoms usually begin in mid-adulthood but can appear any time from childhood to late-adulthood. SCA2 is caused by mutations in the ATXN2 gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.

Question: What is (are) Pallister-Killian mosaic syndrome ?
Answer: Pallister-Killian mosaic syndrome is a disorder that is characterized by extremely weak muscle tone (hypotonia) in infancy and early childhood, intellectual disability, distinctive facial features, sparse hair, areas of unusual skin coloring (pigmentation), and other birth defects. The signs and symptoms of the Pallister-Killian mosaic syndrome can vary, although most documented cases of people with the syndrome have severe to profound intellectual disability and other serious health problems. Pallister-Killian mosaic syndrome is usually caused by the presence of an abnormal extra chromosome 12 called isochromosome 12p. Normal chromosomes have one long (q) arm and one short (p) arm, but isochromosomes have either two q arms or two p arms. Isochromosome 12p is a version of chromosome 12 made up of two p arms. Cells normally have two copies of each chromosome, one inherited from each parent. In people with Pallister-Killian mosaic syndrome, cells have the two usual copies of chromosome 12, but some cells also have the isochromosome 12p. These cells have a total of four copies of all the genes on the p arm of chromosome 12. The extra genetic material from the isochromosome disrupts the normal course of development, causing the characteristic features of this disorder. Although Pallister-Killian mosaic syndrome is usually caused by an isochromosome 12p, other, more complex chromosomal changes involving chromosome 12 are responsible for the disorder in rare cases.

Question: What is (are) Punctate inner choroidopathy ?
Answer: Punctate inner choroidopathy (PIC) is an inflammatory disorder that primarily affects the choroid of the eye and occurs predominantly in young, nearsighted (myopic) women. Signs and symptoms may include scotomata, blurred vision, photopsias, floaters, photophobia, distorted vision (metamorphopsia), and/or loss of peripheral vision. The majority of cases are self-limited with good visual prognosis, but permanent and severe visual loss can occur as a result of the development of choroidal neovascular membranes (CNV). The cause of PIC is not known, but it is thought to involve both genetic predisposition and environmental factors. The majority of affected individuals who do not have CNV do not require treatment; for others, treatment may include medication, laser photocoagulation, photodynamic therapy (treatment with drugs that become active when exposed to light) and/or surgery.

Question: What is (are) Muscle eye brain disease ?
Answer: Muscle eye brain disease is a rare form of congenital muscular dystrophy. Individuals with this condition are born with muscle weakness (hypotonia), severe nearsightedness (myopia), glaucoma, and brain abnormalities. They also have developmental delay and intellectual disability. People with muscle eye brain disease frequently have additional eye abnormalities, hydrocephalus, and distinctive facial features. This condition is caused by mutations in gene a called POMGNT1, and it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. The signs and symptoms of this condition vary among affected individuals, even among members of the same family.

Question: What is (are) Malignant eccrine spiradenoma ?
Answer: Malignant eccrine spiradenoma is a type of tumor that develops from a sweat gland in the skin.  It starts as a rapidly-growing bump on the head or abdomen, and may cause tenderness, redness, or an open wound.  The exact cause of malignant eccrine spiradenoma is unknown, though it is thought that sun exposure or problems with the immune system (immunosuppression) may contribute to the development of this tumor.  Because malignant eccrine spiradenoma is quite rare, there are no established treatment guidelines; however, in practice, surgery is often performed to remove the tumor and additional treatments may follow, depending on the severity and extent of the cancer.

Question: What is (are) L-arginine:glycine amidinotransferase deficiency ?
Answer: L-arginine:glycine amidinotransferase (AGAT) deficiency is a rare condition that primarily affects the brain. People with AGAT deficiency generally have mild to moderate intellectual disability. Other signs and symptoms may include seizures, delayed language development, muscle weakness, failure to thrive, autistic behaviors, and delayed motor milestones (i.e. walking, sitting). AGAT deficiency is caused by changes (mutations) in the GATM gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment of AGAT deficiency is focused on increasing cerebral creatine levels and generally consists of supplementation with creatine monohydrate.

Question: What is (are) Microhydranencephaly ?
Answer: Microhydranencephaly is a developmental abnormality that affects the brain. Signs and symptoms may include extreme microcephaly, scalp rugae (a series of ridges), profound developmental delay and severe intellectual disability. Imaging studies of the brain generally reveal incomplete brain formation and severe hydrocephalus (accumulation of fluid in the brain). In most cases, the underlying cause is unknown. Rarely, the condition is caused by changes (mutations) in the NDE1 gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Schwannomatosis ?
Answer: Schwannomatosis is a rare form of neurofibromatosis that is primarily characterized by multiple schwannomas (benign tumors of the nervous system) in the absence of bilateral (affecting both sides) vestibular schwannomas. Signs and symptoms of the condition vary based on the size, location and number of schwannomas but may include pain; numbness; tingling; and/or weakness in the fingers and toes. Inherited forms of the disorder account for only 15 percent of all cases. In some of these families, schwannomatosis is caused by changes (mutations) in the SMARCB1 or LZTR1 genes; in other cases, the exact underlying cause is unknown. When inherited, the condition is passed down in an autosomal dominant manner with highly variable expressivity and reduced penetrance. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person but may include medications and/or surgery.

Question: What is (are) Usher syndrome, type 1B ?
Answer: Usher syndrome is a genetic condition characterized by hearing loss or deafness, and progressive vision loss due to retinitis pigmentosa. Three major types of Usher syndrome have been described - types I, II, and III.  The different types are distinguished by their severity and the age when signs and symptoms appear. All three types are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, which means both copies of the disease-causing gene in each cell have mutations.

Question: What is (are) Split hand split foot malformation autosomal recessive ?
Answer: Split hand foot malformation (SHFM) is a type of birth defect that consists of missing digits (fingers and/or toes), a deep cleft down the center of the hand or foot, and fusion of remaining digits. The severity of this condition varies widely among affected individuals. SHFM is sometimes called ectrodactyly; however, this is a nonspecific term used to describe missing digits. SHFM may occur by itself (isolated) or it may be part of a syndrome with abnormalities in other parts of the body. At least six different forms of isolated SHFM have been described. Each type is associated with a different underlying genetic cause. SHFM1 has been linked to chromosome 7, and SHFM2 is linked to the X chromosome. SHFM3 is caused by a duplication of chromosome 10 at position 10q24. Changes (mutations) in the TP63 gene cause SHFM4. SHFM5 is linked to chromosome 2, and SHFM6 is caused by mutations in the WNT10B gene. SHFM may be inherited in an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked manner.

Question: What is (are) Catamenial pneumothorax ?
Answer: Catamenial pneumothorax is an extremely rare condition that affects women. Pneumothorax is the medical term for a collapsed lung, a condition in which air or gas is trapped in the space surrounding the lungs causing the lungs to collapse. Women with catamenial pneumothorax have recurrent episodes of pneumothorax that occur within 72 hours before or after the start of menstruation. The exact cause of catamenial pneumothorax is unknown and several theories have been proposed. Many cases are associated with the abnormal development of endometrial tissue outside of the uterus (endometriosis). Some believe that catamenial pneumothorax is the most common form of thoracic endometriosis (a condition in which the endometrial tissue grows in or around the lungs). A diagnosis of catamenial pneumothorax is usually suspected when a woman of reproductive age and with endometriosis has episodes of pneumothorax. Treatment is with hormones and surgery.

Question: What is (are) Peyronie disease ?
Answer: Peyronie disease is a connective tissue disorder characterized by a plaque, or hard lump, that forms within the penis. Affected individuals may experience painful, curved erections which can make make normal sexual intercourse impossible. Symptoms may appear suddenly or develop gradually. While the painful erections for most men resolve over time, the scar tissue and curvature may remain. Some cases appear to resolve spontaneously. The exact cause of Peyronie's disease is not known.

Question: What is (are) Congenital mirror movement disorder ?
Answer: Congenital mirror movement disorder (CMM) is a rare condition that is characterized by mirror movements (involuntary movements of one side of the body that mirror intentional movements on the opposite side). Affected people generally develop these movements in infancy or early childhood, which usually persist throughout their life without any related signs or symptoms. In most cases, the involuntary movements are noticeable but less pronounced than the corresponding voluntary movements; however, the severity of symptoms can vary significantly, even among family members. CMM can be caused by changes (mutations) in the DCC or RAD51 genes and inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. In some families, the exact underlying cause of CMM is unknown.

Question: What is (are) Partington syndrome ?
Answer: Partington syndrome is a rare neurological condition that is primarily characterized by mild to moderate intellectual disability and dystonia of the hands. Other signs and symptoms may include dysarthria, behavioral abnormalities, recurrent seizures and/or an unusual gait (style of walking). Partington syndrome usually occurs in males; when it occurs in females, the signs and symptoms are often less severe. It is caused by changes (mutations) in the ARX gene and is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Aplasia cutis congenita ?
Answer: Aplasia cutis congenita is a condition in which there is congenital (present from birth) absence of skin, with or without the absence of underlying structures such as bone. It most commonly affects the scalp, but any location of the body can be affected. While most people with aplasia cutis congenita have no other abnormalities, some people have congenital malformations involving the cardiovascular (heart), gastrointestinal, genitourinary, and central nervous systems. The cause of this condition is unclear and appears to be multifactorial (many different factors appear to play a role); contributing factors may include teratogens, genes, trauma, and compromised skin perfusion.

Question: What is (are) Congenital lobar emphysema ?
Answer: Congenital lobar emphysema is a rare respiratory disorder in which air can enter the lungs but cannot escape, causing overinflation (hyperinflation) of the lobes of the lung. It is most often detected in newborns or young infants, but some cases do not become apparent until adulthood. Signs and symptoms may include difficulty breathing and respiratory distress in infancy, an enlarged chest, compressed lung tissue, cyanosis, and underdevelopment of the cartilage that supports the bronchial tube (bronchial hypoplasia). This disorder may be severe enough to cause associated heart problems (15% of cases) or so mild as to never become apparent. Some cases may be caused by autosomal dominant inheritance while others occur for no apparent reason (sporadic).

Question: What is (are) Glycogen storage disease type 7 ?
Answer: Glycogen storage disease type 7 (GSD7) is an inherited condition in which the body is unable to break down glycogen (a complex sugar) in the muscle cells. Because glycogen is an important source of energy, this can interfere with the normal functioning of muscle cells. The severity of the condition and the associated signs and symptoms vary, but may include muscle weakness and stiffness; painful muscle cramps; nausea and vomiting; and/or myoglobinuria (the presence of myoglobin in the urine) following moderate to strenuous exercise. Symptoms typically resolve with rest. GSD7 is most commonly diagnosed during childhood; however, some affected people may rarely develop symptoms during infancy or later in adulthood. Those who develop the condition during infancy may experience additional symptoms such as hypotonia (poor muscle tone), cardiomyopathy and breathing difficulties that often lead to a shortened lifespan (less than 1 year). This condition is caused by changes (mutations) in the PFKM gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. There is no specific treatment for GSD7; however, affected people are generally advised to avoid vigorous exercise and high-carbohydrate meals.

Question: What is (are) Systemic scleroderma ?
Answer: Systemic scleroderma is an autoimmune disorder that affects the skin and internal organs. It is characterized by the buildup of scar tissue (fibrosis) in the skin and other organs. The fibrosis is caused by the body's production of too much collagen, which normally strengthens and supports connective tissues. The signs and symptoms of systemic scleroderma usually begin with episodes of Raynaud's phenomenon, which can occur weeks to years before fibrosis. This may be followed by puffy or swollen hands before the skin becomes thickened and hard. Fibrosis can also affect internal organs and can lead to impairment or failure of the affected organs. The most commonly affected organs are the esophagus, heart, lungs, and kidneys. There are three types of systemic scleroderma, defined by the tissues affected in the disorder. Diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis Limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis (which includes CREST syndrome) Limited systemic sclerosis (systemic sclerosis sine scleroderma)

Question: What is (are) Spinocerebellar ataxia 11 ?
Answer: Spinocerebellar ataxia type 11 (SCA11) is characterized by progressive cerebellar ataxia (difficulty walking and balance) and abnormal eye signs (jerky pursuit, horizontal and vertical movements (nystagmus), pyramidal features (increased muscular tonus, increased reflexes and an abnormal reflex known as Babinski sign and inability to make to perform fine movements), peripheral neuropathy with numbness, weakness or pain in the feet or hands or other places of the body and dystonia. It is a very rare disease and very few patients have been reported to date. In them, age of onset ranged from the early teens to the second decade of life and life span was normal. Diagnosis is based on signs and symptoms and with a genetic exam showing an alteration (mutation) in the TTBK2 gene. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Treatment may include speech and language therapy for talking and swallowing problems, occupational therapy, including home adaptations, physiotherapy and use of assistive walking devices and ankle-foot orthotics (AFOs) for those with neuropathy.

Question: What is (are) Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome type 3 ?
Answer: Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome is an inherited condition that mainly affects the brain, immune system, and skin. It is characterized by early-onset severe brain dysfunction (encephalopathy) that usually results in severe intellectual and physical disability. Additional symptoms may include epilepsy, painful, itchy skin lesion (chilblains), vision problems, and joint stiffness. Symptoms usually progress over several months before the disease course stabilizes. There are six different types of Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome, which are distinguished by the gene that causes the condition: TREX1, RNASEH2A, RNASEH2B, RNASEH2C, SAMHD1, and ADAR genes. Most cases are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, although rare autosomal dominant cases have been reported. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive.

Question: What is (are) Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, vascular type ?
Answer: Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS), vascular type is an inherited connective tissue disorder that is caused by defects in a protein called collagen. It is generally considered the most severe form of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. Common symptoms include thin, translucent skin; easy bruising; characteristic facial appearance; and fragile arteries, muscles and internal organs. EDS, vascular type is caused by changes (mutations) in the COL3A1 gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Treatment and management is focused on preventing serious complications and relieving associated signs and symptoms.

Question: What is (are) Asthma ?
Answer: Asthma is a breathing disorder that affects the airways. People with this condition experience recurrent swelling and narrowing of the airways of the lungs which is associated with wheezing, shortness of breath, chest tightness, and coughing. Most affected people have episodes of symptoms ("asthma attacks") followed by symptom-free periods; however, some may experience persistent shortness of breath in between attacks. Asthma is considered a complex or multifactorial condition that is likely due to a combination of multiple genetic, environmental, and lifestyle factors. Many people with asthma have a personal or family history of allergies, such as hay fever or eczema. Having a family member with asthma is associated with an increased risk of developing the condition. Treatment generally includes various medications, both to prevent asthma attacks and to provide quick relief during an attack.

Question: What is (are) Autosomal recessive optic atrophy, hearing loss, and peripheral neuropathy ?
Answer: Autosomal recessive optic atrophy, hearing loss, and peripheral neuropathy is a neurological condition described by Iwashita et al. in 1969 in a Korean brother and sister. This condition is characterized by variable degrees of hearing loss, distal weakness and loss of muscle tissue (atrophy) in the upper limbs, variable degrees of weakness and atrophy of the lower limbs, and optic atrophy with or without visual impairment. Autosomal recessive inheritance has been suggested.

Question: What is (are) Keutel syndrome ?
Answer: Keutel syndrome is an inherited condition characterized by cartilage calcification in the ears, nose, larnyx, trachea (voice box), and ribs; pulmonary artery stenoses; brachytelephalangism (short fingers and nails that resemble drumsticks); and facial dysmorphism. Less than 30 cases have been reported in the literature. The majority of affected individuals have been diagnosed during childhood. Other associated features may include hearing loss, recurrent otitis and/or sinusitis, mild intellectual disability, frequent respiratory infections, nasal speech and rarely, seizures, and short stature. This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion and is caused by mutations in the MGP gene.

Question: What is (are) Neurofibroma ?
Answer: A neurofibroma is a non-cancerous (benign) tumor that develops from the cells and tissues that cover nerves. Some people who develop neurofibromas have a genetic condition known as neurofibromatosis (NF). There are different types of NF, but type 1 is the most common.

Question: What is (are) Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy ?
Answer: Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy is an epilepsy syndrome characterized by myoclonic jerks (quick jerks of the arms or legs), generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCSs), and sometimes, absence seizures. The seizures of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy often occur when people first awaken in the morning. Seizures can be triggered by lack of sleep, extreme fatigue, stress, or alcohol consumption. Onset typically occurs around adolesence in otherwise healthy children. The exact cause of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy remains unknown, but genetics likely plays a role. Although patients usually require lifelong treatment with anticonvulsants, their overall prognosis is generally good.

Question: What is (are) Tularemia ?
Answer: Tularemia is an infection common in wild rodents caused by the bacterium Francisella tularensis. It is transmitted to humans by contact with infected animal tissues or by ticks, biting flies, and mosquitoes. The condition is most common in North America and parts of Europe and Asia. It is very rare in the United States. The illness, which is characterized by fever, chills, headache, joint pain and muscle weakness, may continue for several weeks after symptoms begin. Streptomycin and tetracycline are commonly used to treat the infection.

Question: What is (are) Chromosome 6p deletion ?
Answer: Chromosome 6p deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the short arm (p) of chromosome 6. The severity of the condition and the signs and symptoms depend on the size and location of the deletion and which genes are involved. Features that often occur in people with chromosome 6p deletion include developmental delay, intellectual disability, behavioral problems, and distinctive facial features. Chromosome 6p deletion can be de novo or inherited from a parent with a chromosomal rearrangement such as a balanced translocation. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Frontotemporal dementia ?
Answer: Frontotemporal dementia describes a group of conditions associated with shrinking of the frontal and temporal anterior lobes of the brain. Symptoms include either variable changes in behavior (e.g., impulsive, bored, listless, lack of social contact, lack of empathy, distractibility, blunted emotions, compulsive behavior, decreased energy and motivation) or problems with language (e.g., difficulty making or understanding speech). Spatial skills and memory remain intact. There is a strong genetic component to the disease; it often runs in families. There is no cure for frontotemporal dementia at this time, as a result treatment remains supportive. Although the name and classification of FTD has been a topic of discussion for over a century, the current classification of the syndrome groups together Picks disease, primary progressive aphasia, and semantic dementia as FTD. Some doctors propose adding corticobasal degeneration and progressive supranuclear palsy to FTD and calling the group Pick Complex. You can click on the links to view the GARD pages on these conditions.

Question: What is (are) Collagenous colitis ?
Answer: Collagenous colitis is a type of inflammatory bowel disease that affects the colon. It is a form of microscopic colitis, which means that the inflammation is only visible when a biopsy is examined under a microscope; the inflammation cannot be seen or diagnosed from colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy. Signs and symptoms may be ongoing or intermittent and may include chronic, watery, non-bloody diarrhea and abdominal pain or cramps. The exact underlying cause is unknown but may relate to a bacteria, a virus, an autoimmune response, and/or a genetic predisposition. Treatment for collagenous colitis varies depending on the symptoms and severity in each individual. In some cases, the condition resolves on its own.

Question: What is (are) Hypersensitivity vasculitis ?
Answer: Hypersensitivity vasculitis is an extreme reaction to a drug, infection, or foreign substance that leads to inflammation and damage to blood vessels of the skin. Signs and symptoms may include purple-colored spots and patches on the skin; skin lesions on the legs, buttocks, or trunk; blisters on the skin; hives (urticaria); and/or open sores with dead tissue (necrotic ulcers). This condition is caused by an allergic reaction to a drug or other foreign substance. This condition usually goes away over time; but on occasion, people can have repeated episodes.

Question: What is (are) Chiari malformation type 1 ?
Answer: Chiari malformation type 1 is a structural abnormality of the cerebellum, the part of the brain that controls balance. It involves the extension of the lower part of the cerebellum into the foramen magnum (the large hole at the base of the skull which allows passage of the spinal cord), without involving the brainstem. Normally, only the spinal cord passes through this opening. This malformation is the most common type of Chiari malformation and may not cause any symptoms. Depending on the symptoms present and severity, some individuals may not require treatment while others may require pain medications or surgery.

Question: What is (are) Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy ?
Answer: Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is a genetic muscle disorder with onset during adulthood, most often between 40 and 60 years of age. This condition is characterized by slowly progressive muscle disease (myopathy) affecting the muscles of the upper eyelids and the throat. There are two types of OPMD, which are distinguished by their patterns of inheritance. They are known as the autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive types. Both types are caused by mutations in the PABPN1 gene.

Question: What is (are) Proud syndrome ?
Answer: Proud syndrome is a rare neurological condition that is primarily characterized by severe intellectual disability, agenesis of the corpus callosum, seizures, and spasticity. It usually occurs in males; when it occurs in females, the signs and symptoms are often less severe. Proud syndrome is caused by changes (mutations) in the ARX gene and is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Congenital anosmia ?
Answer: Congenital anosmia is a very rare condition in which people are born with a lifelong inability to smell. It may occur as an isolated abnormality (no additional symptoms) or be associated with a specific genetic disorder (such as Kallmann syndrome and congenital insensitivity to pain). Scientists suspect that isolated congenital anosmia occurs due to abnormal development of the olfactory system (the sensory system used for sense of smell) prior to birth. This may include abnormalities of the nasal cavity, disruptions in the pathway that carries information from the nose to the brain, and/or malformations of the portion of the brain that processes sense of smell. Unfortunately, there is currently no known cure or treatment for congenital anosmia.

Question: What is (are) Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency ?
Answer: Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency (AATD) is a disorder that causes a deficiency or absence of the alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) protein in the blood. AAT is made in the liver and sent through the bloodstream to the lungs, to protect the lungs from damage. Having low levels of ATT (or no ATT) can allow the lungs to become damaged, making breathing hard. Age of onset and severity of AATD can vary based on how much ATT an affected person is missing. In adults, symptoms may include shortness of breath; reduced ability to exercise; wheezing; respiratory infections; fatigue; vision problems; and weight loss. Some people have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or asthma. Liver disease (cirrhosis) may occur in affected children or adults. Rarely, AATD can cause a skin condition called panniculitis. AATD is caused by mutations in the SERPINA1 gene and is inherited in a codominant manner. Treatment is based on each person's symptoms and may include bronchodilators; antibiotics for upper respiratory tract infections; intravenous therapy of AAT; and/or lung transplantation in severe cases.

Question: What is (are) Chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction ?
Answer: Chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction (CIPO) is a rare but serious condition characterized by repetitive episodes or continuous symptoms of bowel obstruction when no blockage exists. The most common symptoms are abdominal swelling or bloating (distention), vomiting, abdominal pain, failure to thrive, diarrhea, constipation, feeding intolerance and urinary symptoms. CIPO can occur in people of any age. It may be primary or secondary. Problems with nerves, muscles, or interstitial cells of Cajal (the cells that set the pace of intestinal contractions) prevent normal contractions and cause problems with the movement of food, fluid, and air through the intestines. Primary or idiopathic (where the cause is unknown) CIPO occurs by itself. Secondary CIPO develops as a complication of another medical condition. Some people with primary CIPO have gain or loss of genetic material in the FLNA gene. The diagnosis of CIPO is clinical and other conditions with similar symptoms should be ruled out. Treatment may include nutritional support, medications, decompression or surgery. Management may require specialists from a variety of backgrounds.

Question: What is (are) Hypotrichosis-lymphedema-telangiectasia syndrome ?
Answer: Hypotrichosis-lymphedema-telangiectasia syndrome (HLTS) is a rare condition that, as the name suggests, is associated with sparse hair (hypotrichosis), lymphedema, and telangiectasia, particularly on the palms of the hands. Symptoms usually begin at birth or in early childhood and become worse over time. HLTS is thought to be caused by changes (mutations) in the SOX18 gene. It can follow both an autosomal dominant or an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, depending on the affected family. There is currently no cure for the condition. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Waardenburg syndrome ?
Answer: Waardenburg syndrome (WS) is a group of genetic conditions characterized by varying degrees of hearing loss and differences in the coloring (pigmentation) of the eyes, hair, and skin. Signs and symptoms can vary both within and between families. Common features include congenital sensorineural deafness; pale blue eyes, different colored eyes, or two colors within one eye; a white forelock (hair just above the forehead); or early graying of scalp hair before age 30. Various other features may also be present. WS is classified into 4 subtypes (types 1, 2, 3 and 4) based on whether certain features are present and the genetic cause. Mutations in at least 6 different genes are known to cause WS, and it may be inherited in an autosomal dominant (most commonly) or autosomal recessive manner. Treatment depends on the specific symptoms present.

Question: What is (are) ADNP syndrome ?
Answer: ADNP syndrome, also known as Helsmoortel-van der Aa syndrome, is a complex neuro-developmental disorder that affects the brain and many other areas and functions of the body. ADNP syndrome can affect muscle tone, feeding, growth, hearing, vision, sleep, fine and gross motor skills, as well as the immune system, heart, endocrine system, and gastrointestinal tract.[1] ADNP syndrome causes behavior disorders such as Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). ADNP is caused by a non-inherited (de novo) ADNP gene mutation. ADNP syndrome is thought to be one of the most common causes of non-inherited genetic autism.[1]

Question: What is (are) Marshall-Smith syndrome ?
Answer: Marshall-Smith syndrome is a malformation syndrome characterized by advanced bone age, failure to thrive, respiratory problems, dysmorphic facial features, and variable mental retardation. Less than 40 cases have been reported in the literature, mostly as single case reports or small series. Early death is common due to respiratory complications. The cause of this disease remains unknown, but its sporadic occurrence suggests a de novo (new) dominant mutation. Aggressive management of the early respiratory and feeding problems may improve survival in individuals affected by this condition.

Question: What is (are) Histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy plus syndrome ?
Answer: Histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy plus syndrome is a group of conditions with overlapping signs and symptoms that affect many parts of the body. This group of disorders includes H syndrome, pigmented hypertrichosis with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (PHID), Faisalabad histiocytosis, and familial Rosai-Dorfman disease (also known as familial sinus histiocytosis with massive lymphadenopathy or FSHML). These conditions were once thought to be distinct disorders; however, because of the overlapping features and shared genetic cause, they are now considered to be part of the same disease spectrum. While some affected individuals have signs and symptoms characteristic of one of these conditions, others have a range of features from two or more of the conditions. The pattern of signs and symptoms can vary, even within the same family. All of the conditions in the spectrum are characterized by histiocytosis, which is an overgrowth of immune system cells called histiocytes. These cells abnormally accumulate in one or more tissues in the body, which can lead to organ or tissue damage. The lymph nodes are commonly affected, leading to swelling of the lymph nodes (lymphadenopathy). Other areas of cell accumulation can include skin, kidneys, brain and spinal cord (central nervous system), or digestive tract. The spectrum is known as histiocytosis-lymphadenoapthy plus syndrome because the disorders that make up the spectrum can have additional signs and symptoms. H syndrome is named for the collection of symptoms - all starting with the letter H - that are commonly present. These include hyperpigmented skin lesions with excessive hair growth (hypertrichosis) and histiocyte accumulation, enlargement of the liver or liver and spleen (hepatomegaly or hepatosplenomegaly), heart abnormalities, hearing loss, reduced amounts of hormones that direct sexual development (hypogonadism), and short stature (reduced height). In some cases, hyperglycemia/diabetes mellitus may also be present. PHID is characterized by patches of hyperpigmented skin with hypertrichosis and the development of type 1 diabetes during childhood. Faisalabad histiocytosis is characterized by lymphadenopathy and swelling of the eyelids due to the accumulation of histiocytes. Affected individuals may also have joint deformities (contractures) in their fingers or toes, and hearing loss. Familial Rosai-Dorfman disease is characterized by lymphadenopathy, most often in the neck. Histiocytes can also accumulate in other parts of the body. Histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy plus syndrome is caused by mutations in the SLC29A3 gene. The condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Treatment is aimed at treating the symptoms present in each individual.

Question: What is (are) Chronic hiccups ?
Answer: Chronic hiccups are unintentional movements (spasms) of the diaphragm followed by rapid closure of the vocal cords that persist for an extended period of time. Hiccups often develop for no apparent reason and typically go away on their own after a couple minutes. However, chronic hiccups last over two days and in rare cases, may continue for over a month. Hiccups that recur over long periods of time are also considered "chronic." Depending on how long the hiccups last, affected people may become exhausted, dehydrated and/or lose weight due to interruptions in sleep and normal eating patterns. Other complications may include irregular heart beat and gastroesophageal reflux. The exact underlying cause is often unknown; some cases may be caused by surgery, certain medications and/or a variety of health problems such as central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) abnormalities, psychological problems, conditions that irritate the diaphragm, and metabolic diseases. Treatment of chronic hiccups varies but may include medications and/or surgery.

Question: What is (are) Noonan syndrome 3 ?
Answer: Noonan syndrome is a genetic disorder that causes abnormal development of multiple parts of the body. Features of Noonan syndrome may include a distinctive facial appearance, short stature, a broad or webbed neck, congenital heart defects, bleeding problems, skeletal malformations, and developmental delay. Noonan syndrome may be caused by mutations in any one of several genes including the PTPN11, KRAS, RAF1, SOS1, NRAS and BRAF genes. It is sometimes referred to as a specific subtype based on the responsible gene in an affected person. Noonan syndrome is typically inherited in an autosomal dominant manner but many cases are due to a new mutation and are not inherited from an affected parent.

Question: What is (are) Chromosome 5q deletion ?
Answer: Chromosome 5q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the long arm (q) of chromosome 5. The severity of the condition and the signs and symptoms depend on the size and location of the deletion and which genes are involved. Features that often occur in people with chromosome 5q deletion include developmental delay, intellectual disability, behavioral problems, and distinctive facial features. Most cases are not inherited, but people can pass the deletion on to their children. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ?
Answer: Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia (MED) is a group of disorders of cartilage and bone development, primarily affecting the ends of the long bones in the arms and legs (epiphyses). There are two types of MED, which are distinguished by their patterns of inheritance - autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive. Signs and symptoms may include joint pain in the hips and knees; early-onset arthritis; a waddling walk; and mild short stature as adults. Recessive MED may also cause malformations of the hands, feet, and knees; scoliosis; or other abnormalities. Most people are diagnosed during childhood, but mild cases may not be diagnosed until adulthood. Dominant MED is caused by mutations in the COMP, COL9A1, COL9A2, COL9A3, or MATN3 genes (or can be of unknown cause), and recessive MED is caused by mutations in the SLC26A2 gene.

Question: What is (are) Idiopathic inflammatory myopathy ?
Answer: Idiopathic inflammatory myopathy refers to a group of conditions that affect the skeletal muscles (muscles used for movement). Although the condition can be diagnosed at any age, idiopathic inflammatory myopathy most commonly occurs in adults between ages 40 and 60 years or in children between ages 5 and 15 years. Signs and symptoms of the condition include muscle weakness, joint pain and fatigue. There are several forms of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy, including polymyositis, dermatomyositis, and sporadic inclusion body myositis, which are each associated with unique features. As the name suggests, the cause of the condition is currently unknown (idiopathic). However, researchers suspect that it may occur due to a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Treatment is supportive and based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Split hand foot malformation ?
Answer: Split hand foot malformation (SHFM) is a type of birth defect that consists of missing digits (fingers and/or toes), a deep cleft down the center of the hand or foot, and fusion of remaining digits. The severity of this condition varies widely among affected individuals. SHFM is sometimes called ectrodactyly; however, this is a nonspecific term used to describe missing digits. SHFM may occur by itself (isolated) or it may be part of a syndrome with abnormalities in other parts of the body. At least six different forms of isolated SHFM have been described. Each type is associated with a different underlying genetic cause. SHFM1 has been linked to chromosome 7, and SHFM2 is linked to the X chromosome. SHFM3 is caused by a duplication of chromosome 10 at position 10q24. Changes (mutations) in the TP63 gene cause SHFM4. SHFM5 is linked to chromosome 2, and SHFM6 is caused by mutations in the WNT10B gene. SHFM may be inherited in an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked manner.

Question: What is (are) Congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type 2 ?
Answer: Congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type 2 (CDA II) is an inherited blood disorder characterized by mild to severe anemia. It is usually diagnosed in adolescence or early adulthood. Many affected individuals have yellowing of the skin and eyes (jaundice) and an enlarged liver and spleen (hepatosplenomegaly) and gallstones. This condition also causes the body to absorb too much iron, which builds up and can damage tissues and organs. In particular, iron overload can lead to an abnormal heart rhythm (arrhythmia), congestive heart failure, diabetes, and chronic liver disease (cirrhosis). Rarely, people with CDA type II have mediastinal tumors. CDA type II usually results from mutations in the SEC23B gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Treatment depends on the severity of the symptoms and may involve blood transfusions, iron chelation therapy and removal of the spleen and gallbladder.

Question: What is (are) Congenital contractural arachnodactyly ?
Answer: Congenital contractural arachnodactyly (CCA) is a genetic disorder that is typically characterized by tall height; skinny, long limbs; long, skinny fingers and toes (arachnodactyly); multiple joint deformities present at birth (congenital contractures), usually of the elbows, knees, hips, fingers and ankles; "crumpled"-looking ears, and curvature of the spine (kyphoscoliosis). Other features might also be present and vary from person to person. CCA is caused by mutations in a gene called FBN2 gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. CCA shares similiar signs and symptoms to Marfan syndrome; however, Marfan syndrome is not caused by mutations in the FBN2 gene.

Question: What is (are) Geroderma osteodysplastica ?
Answer: Geroderma osteodysplastica is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by lax, wrinkled skin, loose joints and a typical face with a prematurely aged appearance. Skeletal signs include severe osteoporosis leading to frequent fractures, malar and mandibular hypoplasia (underdeveloped cheekbones and jaw) and a variable degree of growth deficiency. This condition is caused by mutations in the GORAB gene.

Question: What is (are) Pulmonary vein stenosis ?
Answer: Pulmonary vein stenosis is a very rare and serious condition in which there is a blockage in the blood vessels that bring oxygen-rich blood from the lungs back to the heart. This condition can be isolated to one vein, but often affects multiple veins. Stenosis occurs when there is an abnormal thickening and narrowing of the walls of the veins. Pulmonary vein stenosis is a progressive condition and may lead to total obstruction to a blood vessel. Most commonly, all of the pulmonary veins of one lung are affected, causing pulmonary hypertension and pulmonary arterial hypertension. Surgery and catheterization to widen the narrow veins is usually a short-term solution since the obstruction typically recurs.

Question: What is (are) Kuskokwim disease ?
Answer: Kuskokwim disease is a congenital (present at birth) contracture disorder that occurs solely among Yup'ik Eskimos in and around the Kuskokwim River delta region of southwest Alaska. Affected individuals usually, but not always, have congenital contractures of large joints (especially knees and/or elbows) and spinal, pelvic, and foot deformities. Other skeletal features have also been reported. Kuskokwim disease has been shown to be caused by mutations in the FKBP10 gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.

Question: What is (are) Beta-thalassemia ?
Answer: Beta-thalassemia is a blood disorder that reduces the body's production of hemoglobin. Low levels of hemoglobin lead to a shortage of mature red blood cells and a lack of oxygen in the body. Affected people have anemia, which can cause paleness, weakness, fatigue, and more serious complications. Severe beta-thalassemia is called thalassemia major or Cooleys anemia. Thalassemia intermedia is a less severe form. Beta-thalassemia is caused by mutations in the HBB gene and is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. People who have only one HBB gene mutation may have no symptoms or develop mild symptoms, and are said to have thalassemia minor. Treatment depends on the severity in each person and may include transfusions, folic acid supplementation, iron chelation, and/or bone marrow transplantation (the only definitive cure).

Question: What is (are) Logopenic progressive aphasia ?
Answer: Logopenic progressive aphasia (LPA) is a type of dementia characterized by language disturbance, including difficulty making or understanding speech (aphasia). It is a type of primary progressive aphasia (PPA). Affected individuals have slow, hesitant speech due to difficulty retrieving the correct words, names, or numbers. Difficulty with phase and sentence repetition are additionally present. Speech is typically well articulated and grammatically correct with good single-word comprehension. But over time, affected individuals may have trouble understanding long or complex verbal information, due to problems holding onto lengthy information that they hear. Language difficulties associated with LPA are due to shrinking, or atrophy, in the left posterior temporal cortex and inferior parietal lobule. Click here to view an image of the lobes of the brain.

Question: What is (are) Lymphedema-distichiasis syndrome ?
Answer: Lymphedema distichiasis syndrome is a condition that affects the normal function of the lymphatic system (part of the immune system that produces and transports fluids and immune cells throughout the body). People with this condition are born with extra eyelashes (distichiasis) and develop puffiness or swelling (lymphedema) of the limbs by the time they are in their forties. The abnormal eyelashes, which grow along the inner lining of the eyelid, often touch the eyeball and can cause damage to the clear covering of the eye (cornea). Other eye problems such as an irregular curvature of the cornea causing blurred vision (astigmatism) or scarring of the cornea may also occur. Other health problems, varicose veins, droopy eyelids (ptosis), heart abnormalities, and an opening in the roof of the mouth (a cleft palate), may also be present. Lymphedema-distichiasis syndrome is caused by mutations in the FOXC2 gene. This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern.

Question: What is (are) Hemophilia B ?
Answer: Hemophilia B is a bleeding disorder that slows the blood clotting process. People with this disorder experience prolonged bleeding or oozing following an injury or surgery. In severe cases of hemophilia, heavy bleeding occurs after minor injury or even in the absence of injury. Serious complications can result from bleeding into the joints, muscles, brain, or other internal organs. Milder forms may not become apparent until abnormal bleeding occurs following surgery or a serious injury. People with an unusual form of hemophilia B, known as hemophilia B Leyden, experience episodes of excessive bleeding in childhood but have few bleeding problems after puberty. Hemophilia B is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern and is caused by mutations in the F9 gene.

Question: What is (are) Myofibrillar myopathy ?
Answer: Myofibrillar myopathies (MFM) are a group of neuromuscular disorders characterized by slowly progressive weakness that can involve both proximal muscles (such as hips and shoulders) and distal muscles (those farther away from the trunk). Some affected individuals also experience sensory symptoms, muscle stiffness, aching, or cramps. Peripheral neuropathy or cardiomyopathy may also be present. Most people with MFM begin to develop muscle weakness in mid-adulthood, but features of the condition can appear anytime between infancy and late adulthood. It may be caused by mutations in any of several genes, including DES, CRYAB, MYOT, LDB3, FLNC,  and BAG3; the signs and symptoms of MFM can vary widely depending on the condition's genetic cause. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Treatment may include a pacemaker and implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) for arrhythmia or cardiac conduction defects; cardiac transplantation for progressive or life-threatening cardiomyopathy; respiratory support for respiratory failure; and physical therapy and assistive devices for those with advanced muscle weakness.

Question: What is (are) Chromosome 2q deletion ?
Answer: Chromosome 2q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the long arm (q) of chromosome 2. The severity of the condition and the signs and symptoms depend on the size and location of the deletion and which genes are involved. Features that often occur in people with chromosome 2q deletion include developmental delay, intellectual disability, behavioral problems, and distinctive facial features. Most cases are not inherited, but people can pass the deletion on to their children. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Myocarditis ?
Answer: Myocarditis is a condition that is characterized by inflammation of the heart muscle (myocardium). Some affected people have no noticeable symptoms of the condition. When present, signs and symptoms may include chest pain, abnormal heartbeat, shortness of breath, fatigue, signs of infection (i.e. fever, headache, sore throat, diarrhea), and leg swelling. Myocarditis can be caused by a variety of factors including infections (viral, bacterial, parasitic, and fungal), allergic reactions to certain medications, and exposure to certain chemicals. It can also be associated with other inflammatory conditions such as lupus, Wegener's granulomatosis, giant cell arteritis and Takayasu's arteritis. Most cases occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. Treatment aims to address the underlying cause of the condition. Medications and rarely, a heart transplant may be needed if the heart muscle becomes weak.

Question: What is (are) Abdominal aortic aneurysm ?
Answer: Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) are aneurysms that occur in the part of the aorta that passes through the abdomen. They may occur at any age, but are most common in men between 50 and 80 years of age. Many people with an AAA have no symptoms, but some people have a pulsing sensation in the abdomen and/or pain in the back. If the aneurysm ruptures, it may cause deep, severe pain; nausea; vomiting; fast heart rate; clammy skin; and/or shock. About 20% of AAAs eventually rupture and are often fatal. The condition has multiple genetic and environmental risk factors, and may sometimes occur as part of an inherited syndrome. When more than one family member is affected, it may be considered "familial abdominal aortic aneurysm." Treatment depends on the size of the aneurysm and may include blood pressure medications, or surgery to repair the aneurysm.

Question: What is (are) Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A ?
Answer: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A (LGMD2A) is an autosomal recessive limb-girdle muscular dystrophy characterized by progressive, symmetrical weakness of the proximal limb and girdle muscles (mainly those around the hips and shoulders) without cardiac involvement or intellectual disability. The condition is caused by mutations in the CAPN3 gene. Type 2A is the most common form of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, accounting for about 30 percent of cases. Treatment is aimed at maintaining mobility and preventing complications. There are three subtypes of LGMD2A which differ by the distribution of muscle weakness and age at onset: Pelvifemoral limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (also known as Leyden-Mobius LGMD) is the most frequently observed subtype. In these cases, muscle weakness is first evident in the pelvic girdle and later in the shoulder girdle. Onset is usually before age 12 or after age 30;  Scapulohumeral LGMD (also known as Erb LGMD) usually has milder symptoms with infrequent early onset. In most cases, muscle weakness is first evident in the shoulder girdle and later in the pelvic girdle;  HyperCKemia is usually observed in children or young individuals. In most cases, those affected don't have symptoms, just high levels of creatine kinase in their blood.

Question: What is (are) Porokeratosis of Mibelli ?
Answer: Porokeratosis of Mibelli is a skin condition that usually develops in children or young adults.  It begins as one or a few small, brownish bumps that grow into raised, bumpy patches.  These patches slowly increase in size over time.  The cause of this condition is unknown, though exposure to sunlight or other forms of radiation, genetic factors and a weakened immune system have been suggested as possible risk factors.  Porokeratosis of Mibelli may sometimes harm normal tissue underlying the affected area; it may also develop into skin cancer.  Treatment depends on the size, location, and aggressiveness of porokeratosis in each affected individual; it may include observation only, medication, or surgery.

Question: What is (are) Mantle cell lymphoma ?
Answer: Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) belongs to a group of diseases known as  non-Hodgkins lymphomas (NHL), which are cancers that affect the the lymphatic system (part of the immune system). MCL accounts for 6% of all non-Hodgkin lymphomas and is mostly found in males during their early 60s. Lymphocytes, which are white blood cells that make up the lymphatic system. There are two main types: B-lymphocytes (B-cells) and T-lymphocytes (T-cells). Mantel cell lymphoma is a B-cell lymphoma that develops from cancerous B-cells within a region of the lymph node known as the mantle zone. Although mantle cell lymphomas are slow-growing cancers, at the time of diagnosis, they are usually widespread in the lymph nodes and require intensive treatment because they can become lethal within a short period of time.

Question: What is (are) Linear porokeratosis ?
Answer: Linear porokeratosis is a skin condition that most often begins in infancy or early childhood, but it can occur at any age.  The main feature of this condition is the development of reddish brown, slightly raised markings on the skin arranged in lines or streaks on one side of the body.  These markings are not usually painful, though they can sometimes cause open sores in the skin.  There is up to an 11% chance that these markings could progress to skin cancer (basal cell cancer or squamous cell carcinoma) over time.  The exact cause of linear porokeratosis is unknown, but risk factors may include exposure to the sun or radiation, problems with the immune system (immunosuppression), or genetic predisposition.

Question: What is (are) 1q21.1 microdeletion syndrome ?
Answer: 1q21.1 microdeletion syndrome is a newly described chromosome abnormality where a segment of genetic material on the long arm (or q arm) of chromosome 1 at position 21.1 is missing (or deleted). It has been described in 46 patients to date. Some people with this deletion have no observable features; while others have variable features that can include small head, developmental delay (speech and motor delays), mild intellectual disability, distinctive facial features, and eye abnormalities. Other findings can include seizures as well as abnormalities of the heart, skeleton, and urinary system. Psychiatric and behavioral features can include autism spectrum disorders, schizophrenia, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and sleep disorders. This syndrome is caused by a deletion in a specific region of 1q21.1, which is distinct from the deletion region that causes TAR syndrome.

Question: What is (are) Erythema nodosum, idiopathic ?
Answer: Erythema nodosum (EN) is a skin condition in which red bumps (nodules) form on the shins. Less commonly, the nodules form on other areas of the body such as the thighs and forearms. The lesions begin as firm, hot, red, painful lumps and progress to a purplish color. EN is a type of inflammatory disorder affecting the layer of fat under the skin (panniculitis). Other symptoms that may accompany the skin findings include the following: fever, a general feeling of being ill. joint aches, and swelling of the affected area. In many cases, EN is presumed to be a delayed reaction to antigens associated with various infections, drugs, and certain systemic diseases. In many cases, however, EN has no identifiable cause (idiopathic); in these cases, clinical follow-up is needed to rule out certain conditions including inflammatory bowel disease, sarcoidosis, lymphoma, and Behcet's disease. Treatment may include rest, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), steroids, hot or cold compresses, potassium iodide solution, and supportive bandages or compression stockings. Symptoms usually resolve within six weeks, but EN may become a chronic disorder lasting for months and, occasionally, for years. Approximately 30% cases of idiopathic EN may last more than 6 months.

Question: What is (are) Epithelial basement membrane corneal dystrophy ?
Answer: Epithelial basement membrane corneal dystrophy is a condition where the epithelium of the cornea (the outermost region of the cornea) loses its normal clarity due to a buildup of cloudy material. It gets its name from the unusual appearance of the cornea during an eye exam. This dystrophy occurs when the epithelium's basement membrane develops abnormally, causing the epithelial cells to not properly adhere to it. This leads to recurrent epithelial erosions, which can cause blurred vision and severe pain. This condition is usually not inherited. However, families with autosomal dominant inheritance and mutations in the TGFBI gene have been identified.

Question: What is (are) Basilar migraine ?
Answer: Basilar migraine is a type of migraine headache with aura that is associated with bilateral (on both sides) pain at the back of the head. An aura is a group of symptoms that generally serve as a warning sign that a bad headache is coming and may include dizziness and vertigo, slurred speech, ataxia, tinnitus, visual changes, and loss of balance. Although basilar migraines can occur in men and women of all ages, they are most common in adolescent girls. The exact underlying cause is not well understood. However, migraines are likely complex disorders that are influenced by multiple genes in combination with lifestyle and environmental factors. In rare cases, the susceptibility to basilar migraines may be caused by a change (mutation) in the ATP1A2 gene or CACNA1A gene. During episodes, affected people are typically treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and antiemetic medications to help alleviate the symptoms.

Question: What is (are) Mitochondrial DNA-associated Leigh syndrome ?
Answer: Mitochondrial DNA-associated Leigh syndrome is a progressive brain disorder that usually appears in infancy or early childhood. Affected children may experience vomiting, seizures, delayed development, muscle weakness, and problems with movement. Heart disease, kidney problems, and difficulty breathing can also occur in people with this disorder. Mitochondrial DNA-associated Leigh syndrome is a subtype of Leigh syndrome and is caused by changes in mitochondrial DNA. Mutations in at least 11 mitochondrial genes have been found to cause mtDNA-associated Leigh syndrome. This condition has an inheritance pattern known as maternal or mitochondrial inheritance. Because mitochondria can be passed from one generation to the next only through egg cells (not through sperm cells), only females pass mitochondrial DNA-associated Leigh syndrome to their children.

Question: What is (are) Central core disease ?
Answer: Central core disease (CCD) is an inherited condition that involves muscle weakness, skeletal abnormalities, and an increased chance of having a severe reaction to some anesthesia medications.  Muscle weakness ranges from mild to severe and typically affects muscles in the trunk and upper legs, though muscles in the neck and face can also be affected. Skeletal abnormalities may include curving of the spine (scoliosis), dislocation of the hip, or restricted motion in certain joints (contractures).  Some individuals with CCD have an increased chance of having a severe reaction to anesthesia, called malignant hyperthermia, which may cause muscle rigidity or break-down (rhabdomyolysis), a high fever, or a rapid heart beat.  RYR1 is the only gene associated with CCD and clinical testing is available to look for disease-causing alterations in this gene known as mutations.

Question: What is (are) Limb dystonia ?
Answer: Limb dystonia is characterized by excessive pulling of the muscles of a limb, such as the hand or foot. The arm or leg might also be involved. Specific symptoms depend on the combinations of muscles involved and how hard each one is pulling. Mild forms may be expressed as stiffness or soreness of a limb; more moderate forms are characterized by unwanted movements or postures; and in severe forms, abnormal postures may become fixed. Common examples of limb dystonia include writer's cramp and musician's dystonia. In most cases, the cause of limb dystonia remains unknown. Treatment is challenging. Botulinum toxin injection, oral medications, and physical therapy may help some patients.

Question: What is (are) Currarino triad ?
Answer: Currarino triad or syndrome is an autosomal dominant hereditary condition which is characterized by the triad of sacral agenesis abnormalities (abnormally developed lower spine), anorectal malformation (most commonly in the form of anorectal stenosis) and presacral mass consisting of a teratoma, anterior sacral meningocele or both. However only 1 out of 5 cases of Currarino triad has all three abnormalities present. Currarino triad is considered a spectrum disorder with a wide variation in severity. Up to one-third of the patients are asymptomatic and may only be diagnosed during adulthood only on X-rays and ultrasound examinations that are performed for different reasons. Currarino triad is most often caused by mutations in the MNX1 gene. Treatment depends on the type and severity of abnormalities present, but may involve surgery.

Question: What is (are) Tracheobronchomalacia ?
Answer: Tracheobronchomalacia (TBM) is a rare condition that occurs when the walls of the airway (specifically the trachea and bronchi) are weak. This can cause the airway to become narrow or collapse. There are two forms of TBM: a congenital form (called primary TBM) that typically develops during infancy or early childhood and an acquired form (called secondary TBM) that is usually seen in adults. Some affected people may initially have no signs or symptoms. However, the condition is typically progressive (becomes worse overtime) and most people will eventually develop characteristic features such as shortness of breath, cough, sputum retention (inability to clear mucus from the respiratory tract), and wheezing or stridor with breathing. Most cases of primary TBM are caused by genetic conditions that weaken the walls of the airway, while the secondary form often occurs incidentally due to trauma, chronic inflammation and/or prolonged compression of the airways. Treatment is generally only required in those who have signs and symptoms of the condition and may include stenting, surgical correction, continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), and tracheostomy.

Question: What is (are) Chromosome 8q24.3 deletion syndrome ?
Answer: Chromosome 8q24.3 deletion syndrome is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on chromosome 8 at a location designated q24.3. The signs and symptoms vary but may include slow growth, developmental delay, characteristic facial features, and skeletal abnormalities. Some affected people may also have coloboma, kidney abnormalities, and heart defects. Most cases are not inherited, but people can pass the deletion on to their children. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Amelogenesis imperfecta ?
Answer: Amelogenesis imperfecta (AI) (amelogenesis - enamel formation; imperfecta - imperfect) is a disorder that affects the structure and appearance of the enamel of the teeth. This condition causes teeth to be unusually small, discolored, pitted or grooved, and prone to rapid wear and breakage. These dental problems, which vary among affected individuals, can affect both primary (baby) teeth and permanent teeth. There are 4 main types of AI that are classified based on the type of enamel defect. These 4 types are divided further into 14 subtypes, which are distinguished by their specific dental abnormalities and by their pattern of inheritance. AI can be inherited in an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive or X-linked recessive pattern.

Question: What is (are) Von Hippel-Lindau disease ?
Answer: Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease is an inherited disorder characterized by the abnormal growth of both benign and cancerous tumors and cysts in many parts of the body. Tumors usually first appear in young adulthood. The types of tumors associated with VHL disease include hemangioblastomas (slow-growing tumors of the central nervous system); kidney cysts and clear cell renal cell carcinoma; pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors; pheochromocytomas (noncancerous tumors of the adrenal glands); and endolymphatic sac tumors. VHL disease is caused by a mutation in the VHL gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Early detection and treatment of VHL disease is important, and usually involves surgical removal of tumors.

Question: What is (are) Ataxia telangiectasia ?
Answer: Ataxia telangiectasia (A-T) is rare condition that affects the nervous system, the immune system, and many other parts of the body. Signs and symptoms of the condition usually begin in early childhood, often before age 5. The condition is typically characterized by cerebellar ataxia (uncoordinated muscle movements), oculomotor apraxia, telangiectasias, choreoathetosis (uncontrollable movements of the limbs), a weakened immune system with frequent infections, and an increased risk of cancers such as leukemia and lymphoma. A-T is caused by changes (mutations) in the ATM gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is supportive and based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Disseminated peritoneal leiomyomatosis ?
Answer: Disseminated peritoneal leiomyomatosis (DPL) is a rare condition which is characterized by nodules or small lumps of smooth muscle cells located on the peritoneum (lining of the abdominal wall) and abdominal organs.The condition is usually benign (noncancerous) but in rare cases has become cancerous. Although it can be seen in post-menopausal women and very rarely in men, DPL occurs most often in women of childbearing age. Most women with DPL are pregnant, taking the birth control pill, or have uterine leioyomas or estrogen-secreting tumors. Some people with DPL have no signs or symptoms of the condition. When present, symptoms may include abdominal and pelvic pain; rectal or vaginal bleeding; and less commonly constipation. The cause of DPL is unknown but may be linked to hormonal and genetic factors. Some cases of DPL resolve when hormone levels are returned to normal. However, surgery may be suggested based on the size and location of the tumor.

Question: What is (are) Meningoencephalocele ?
Answer: Meningoencephalocele is a type of encephalocele, which is an abnormal sac of fluid, brain tissue, and meninges (membranes that cover the brain and spinal cord) that extends through a defect in the skull.  There are two main types of meningoencephalocele, which are named according to the location of the sac. The frontoethmoidal type is located at the frontal and ethmoid bones while the occipital type is located at the occipital bone.  Hydrocephalus, abnormalities of the eyeball and tear duct, and other findings have been associated with the condition. Some affected individuals have intellectual or physical disabilities while others have normal development and abilities.  The condition is typically congenital (present at birth) but has been reported to develop by chance in older individuals in rare cases. The underlying cause of the condition is uncertain, but environmental factors are thought to play a role. Treatment depends on the size, location and severity of the defect but mainly includes magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to determine the severity of the defect, followed by surgery to repair it.

Question: What is (are) Parsonage Turner syndrome ?
Answer: Parsonage Turner syndrome is characterized by the sudden onset of shoulder and upper arm pain followed by progressive (worsening over time) weakness and/or atrophy of the affected area. Although the exact cause is unknown, researchers believe that most cases are due to an autoimmune response following exposure to an illness or environmental factor. Suspected triggers include viral and bacterial infections; surgery; vaccinations; injury; childbirth; strenuous exercise; certain medical procedures; and various health conditions. Treatment is symptomatic and may include pain relievers and physical therapy.

Question: What is (are) Tietze syndrome ?
Answer: Tietze syndrome is an inflammatory condition characterized by chest pain and swelling of the cartilage that joins the upper ribs to the breastbone (costochondral junction). Signs and symptoms of this condition usually develop in young adults (before age 40) and include mild to severe chest pain that may extend into the arms and/or shoulders. The cause of this condition is unknown. In some cases, Tietze syndrome may resolve on its own without treatment. Management for others may include minimizing physical activity; applying local heat; and taking pain medications and/or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Of note, this syndrome is different from Tietz syndrome, which is characterized by profound hearing loss from birth, fair skin, and light-colored hair.

Question: What is (are) Geniospasm ?
Answer: Hereditary geniospasm is a movement disorder that causes episodes of involuntary tremors of the chin and lower lip. The episodes may last anywhere from a few seconds to hours and may occur spontaneously or be brought on by stress. The episodes usually first appear in infancy or childhood and tend to lessen in frequency with age. Hereditary geniospasm is believed to be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. Although the exact gene(s) that cause the condition are unknown, it has been suggested that mutations in a gene on chromosome 9 may be responsible in some families.

Question: What is (are) Pityriasis rubra pilaris ?
Answer: Pityriasis rubra pilaris (PRP) refers to a group of skin conditions that cause constant inflammation and scaling of the skin. Affected people have reddish-orange colored patches; they may occur everywhere on the body or only on certain areas. There are several types of PRP, which are classified based on age of onset, body areas affected, and whether other associated conditions are present. PRP is usually sporadic (occurring randomly) but some forms may be inherited.

Question: What is (are) Limited systemic sclerosis ?
Answer: Systemic sclerosis ine scleroderma is a type of systemic scleroderma that is characterized by Raynaud's phenomenon and the buildup of scar tissue (fibrosis) on one or more internal organs but not the skin. While the exact cause of sine scleroderma is unknown, it is believed to originate from an autoimmune reaction which leads to the overproduction of collagen (a tough protein which normally strengthens and supports connective tissues throughout the body). When fibrosis affects internal organs, it can lead to impairment or failure of the affected organs. The most commonly affected organs are the esophagus, heart, lungs, and kidneys. Internal organ involvement may be signaled by heartburn, difficulty swallowing (dysphagia), high blood pressure (hypertension), kidney problems, shortness of breath, diarrhea, or impairment of the muscle contractions that move food through the digestive tract (intestinal pseudo-obstruction).

Question: What is (are) Norrie disease ?
Answer: Norrie disease is an inherited eye disorder that leads to blindness in male infants at birth or soon after birth. Additional symptoms may occur in some cases, although this varies even among individuals in the same family. Most affected individuals develop sensorineural hearing loss and many exhibit cognitive abnormalities such as developmental delays, behavioral issues, or psychotic-like features. Norrie disease is caused by mutations in the NDP gene. It is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. Treatment is directed toward the specific symptoms present in each individual. The coordinated efforts of a team of specialists, including pediatricians, ophthalmologists, and audiologists may be needed. Early intervention and special education services are important to ensure that children with Norrie disease reach their full potential.

Question: What is (are) Alagille syndrome ?
Answer: Alagille syndrome is an inherited disorder in which a person has fewer than the normal number of small bile ducts inside the liver. It is a complex disorder that can affect other parts of the body including the heart, kidneys, blood vessels, eyes, face, and skeleton. Symptoms, including jaundice, pale, loose stools, and poor growth, typically develop in the first 2 years of life. Symptoms and symptom severity varies, even among people in the same family. Alagille syndrome is caused by mutations in the JAG1 and NOTCH2 genes. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive. In severe cases, liver transplant may be necessary.

Question: What is (are) Schnitzler syndrome ?
Answer: Schnitzler syndrome is a rare autoinflammatory condition. Signs and symptoms of the condition vary but may include urticaria; recurrent fevers; joint pain and inflammation; organomegaly (abnormally enlarged organs); and/or blood abnormalities. The exact underlying cause of the condition is unknown; however, most cases occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. Treatment is focused on alleviating the signs and symptoms associated with the condition and may include various medications and/or phototherapy.

Question: What is (are) Osteomesopyknosis ?
Answer: Osteomesopyknosis is a bone disorder characterized by abnormal hardening of bone (osteosclerosis). It is generally limited to the axial spine, pelvis, and proximal part of the long bones, which is what distinguishes this condition from other sclerosing bone disorders. It is usually diagnosed incidentally in young adults complaining of back pain. Osteomesopyknosis is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner but the genetic cause has not yet been identified. It is generally benign and life expectancy is normal.

Question: What is (are) Acrodysplasia scoliosis ?
Answer: Acrodysplasia scoliosis is a rare condition that has been reported in two brothers. The condition is characterized by scoliosis, brachydactyly (unusually short fingers and toes), spina bifida occulta, and carpal synostosis (fused bones of the wrist). The underlying genetic cause of the condition is unknown, but it appears to be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Autosomal recessive pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 ?
Answer: Autosomal recessive pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 is a disorder of electrolyte metabolism characterized by excess loss of salt in the urine and high concentrations of sodium in sweat, stool, and saliva. The disorder involves multiple organ systems and is especially dangerous in the newborn period. Laboratory tests may show hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, and increased plasma renin activity with high levels of aldosterone in the blood. Respiratory tract infections are common in affected children. Treatment involves aggressive salt replacement and control of hyperkalemia. The disorder may become less severe with age. Autosomal recessive pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 (PHA1B) is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner and is caused by mutations in the genes coding for the subunits of the amiloride-sensitive sodium channel (SCNN1A, SCNN1B and SCNN1G).

Question: What is (are) Lattice corneal dystrophy type 3A ?
Answer: Lattice corneal dystrophy type 3A is rare condition that affects the cornea. It is characterized primarily by protein clumps in the clear, outer covering of the eye which cloud the cornea and impair vision. Affected people also experience recurrent corneal erosion (separation of certain layers of the cornea), which is associated with severe pain and sensitivity to bright light. Lattice corneal dystrophy type 3A is caused by changes (mutations) in the TGFBI gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. The condition is usually treated surgically.

Question: What is (are) MECP2 duplication syndrome ?
Answer: MECP2 duplication syndrome is a genetic condition that occurs almost exclusively in males and is characterized by moderate to severe intellectual disability. Other signs and symptoms include infantile hypotonia; delayed motor milestones (i.e. sitting up, crawling); recurrent infections; poor or absent speech; seizures; and/or spasticity. MECP2 duplication syndrome occurs when there is an extra copy (duplication) of the MECP2 gene in each cell. This is generally caused by a duplication of genetic material located on the long (q) arm of the X chromosome. The condition is inherited in an X-linked manner. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person.

Question: What is (are) Mosaic trisomy 14 ?
Answer: Mosaic trisomy 14 is a rare chromosomal disorder in which there are 3 copies (trisomy) of chromosome 14 in some cells of the body, while other cells have the usual two copies. The extent and severity of features in affected individuals can vary. Signs and symptoms that have been most commonly reported include intrauterine growth restriction; failure to to thrive; developmental delay; intellectual disability; distinctive facial characteristics; structural malformations of the heart; and other physical abnormalities. This condition is most often caused by an error in cell division in the egg or sperm cell before conception, or in fetal cells after fertilization. Treatment is directed toward the specific signs and symptoms in each individual.

Question: What is (are) Mulibrey Nanism ?
Answer: Mulibrey nanism is a rare genetic disorder characterized by profound growth delays and distinctive abnormalities of the muscles, liver, brain, and eyes. The acronym MULIBREY stands for (MU)scle, (LI)ver, (BR)ain, and (EY)e; nanism is another word for dwarfism. Signs and symptoms of the disorder may include constrictive pericarditis; low birth weight; short stature; severe progressive growth delays; hypotonia; hepatomegaly; and yellow discoloration of the eyes in infancy. It is caused by mutations in the TRIM37 gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment may include surgery for constrictive pericarditis, medications for progressive heart failure and hormone replacement therapy.

Question: What is (are) Spondylocostal dysostosis 4 ?
Answer: Spondylocostal dysostosis is a group of conditions characterized by abnormal development of the bones in the spine and ribs. In the spine, the vertebrae are misshapen and fused. Many people with this condition have an abnormal side-to-side curvature of the spine (scoliosis). The ribs may be fused together or missing. These bone malformations lead to short, rigid necks and short midsections. Infants with spondylocostal dysostosis have small, narrow chests that cannot fully expand. This can lead to life-threatening breathing problems. Males with this condition are at an increased risk for inguinal hernia, where the diaphragm is pushed down, causing the abdomen to bulge out. There are several types of spondylocostal dysostosis. These types have similar features and are distinguished by their genetic cause and how they are inherited.  Spondylocostal dysostosis 4 is caused by mutations in the HES7 gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive and may include respiratory support and surgery to correct inguinal hernia and scoliosis.

Question: What is (are) Leprechaunism ?
Answer: Leprechaunism is a congenital (present from birth) condition characterized by extreme insulin resistance, pre- and postnatal growth delays, characteristic facial features, skin abnormalities, muscular hypotrophy (reduced muscle mass) and enlarged external genitalia in both males and females. The condition is caused by mutations in the insulin receptor gene (INSR) gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.

Question: What is (are) Juvenile Huntington disease ?
Answer: Juvenile Huntington disease (HD) is a less common, early-onset form of Huntington disease that begins in childhood or adolescence. It is also a progressive disorder that causes the breakdown of brain cells in certain areas of the brain. This results in uncontrolled movements, loss of intellectual abilities, and emotional disturbances. Juvenile HD is defined by the onset of symptoms before age 20 years and accounts for 5-10% of HD cases. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern and is caused by a mutation called a trinucleotide repeat in the HTT gene. Most often, children with juvenile HD inherit the mutation repeat from their fathers, although on occasion they inherit it from their mothers. Juvenile Huntington disease has a rapid disease progression once symptoms present. There currently is no cure. Treatment is supportive and focused on increasing quality of life.

Question: What is (are) Borjeson-Forssman-Lehmann syndrome ?
Answer: Borjeson-Forssman-Lehmann syndrome (BFLS) is a genetic condition characterized by intellectual disability, obesity, seizures, hypogonadism, developmental delay and distinctive facial features. These symptoms are variable, even among members of the same family. BFLS is caused by mutations in the PHF6 gene on the X chromosome. This mutation is usually transmitted as an X-linked recessive trait, which means the disorder is fully expressed predominantly in males.

Question: What is (are) Singleton Merten syndrome ?
Answer: Singleton Merten syndrome is an extremely rare, multisystem disorder. The major characteristics are tooth abnormalities (dental dysplasia); calcifications in the aorta and certain valves of the heart (i.e., aortic and mitral valves); and progressive thinning and loss of protein of the bones (osteoporosis), especially the upper and back portions of the skull. Other physical findings may include generalized muscle weakness; progressive muscle atrophy; growth delay; delays in motor development; skin conditions; and/or malformation of the hips and/or feet. It appears to occur sporadically (in individuals with no history of the condition in their family) but in some cases, autosomal dominant inheritance has been suggested. Treatment is typically directed toward the specific symptoms that are present in each individual.

Question: What is (are) Familial hyperinsulinism ?
Answer: Familial hyperinsulinism is an inherited condition that causes individuals to have abnormally high levels of insulin, which leads to frequent episodes of low blood sugar (hypoglycemia). In infants and young children, these episodes are characterized by a lack of energy (lethargy), irritability, and/or difficulty feeding. Repeated episodes of low blood sugar increase the risk for serious complications such as seizures, intellectual disability, breathing difficulties, and/or coma. Unlike typical episodes of hypoglycemia, which occur after periods without food (fasting), episodes of hypoglycemia in people with familial hyperinsulinism can also occur after eating or exercising. Mutations in at least seven genes have been found to cause this condition. It is often inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern or less commonly, an autosomal dominant pattern.

Question: What is (are) Loin pain hematuria syndrome ?
Answer: Loin pain hematuria syndrome (LPHS) is a condition that is characterized by persistent or recurrent loin pain and hematuria (blood in the urine). Other signs and symptoms include nausea and vomiting; a low-grade fever (up to 101F); and/or dysuria during episodes of pain. The exact underlying cause of LPHS is currently unknown; however, scientists suspect that it may be due to abnormalities of the glomerular basement membranes (the tissues in the kidney that filter blood); bleeding disorders; or crystal and/or stone formation in the kidneys. Treatment is symptomatic and usually consists of pain management.

Question: What is (are) Polydactyly ?
Answer: Polydactyly is a condition in which a person has more than five fingers per hand or five toes per foot. It is the most common birth defect of the hand and foot. Polydactyly can occur as an isolated finding such that the person has no other physical anomalies or intellectual impairment. However, it can occur in association with other birth defects and cognitive abnormalities as part of a genetic syndrome. In some cases, the extra digits may be well-formed and functional. Surgery may be considered especially for poorly formed digits or very large extra digits. Surgical management depends greatly on the complexity of the deformity. [1] [2]

Question: What is (are) Pseudopelade of Brocq ?
Answer: Pseudopelade of Brocq (PBB) is a slowly progressive, chronic condition characterized by scarring hair loss (cicatricial alopecia). There exists some controversy as to whether PBB is a distinct condition or the common final stage or variant of several different forms of scarring alopecias such as discoid lupus erythematosus (DLE) or lichen planopilaris (LPP). Some have suggested abandoning the use of the term pseudopelade of Brocq while others think that the term should be strictly used to describe patients that follow the pattern of hair loss described by Brocq et al.(i.e., multiple, small, discrete, asymmetrical, smooth, soft, flesh-colored or white patches of hair loss with little, if any, inflammation). Although the exact cause of PBB has not been identified, it is believed to be an autoimmune disease. Some individuals with PBB have been found to have Borrelia burgdorferi, the bacterium that causes Lyme disease.  Neither an effective treatment nor cure is currently available.

Question: What is (are) Desmoplastic small round cell tumor ?
Answer: Desmoplastic small round cell tumors (DSRCT), a rare malignant cancer, is a soft tissue sarcoma that usually affects young boys and men and is found most often in the abdomen. Its name means that it is formed by small, round cancer cells surrounded by scarlike tissue. The most common symptoms include abdominal pain, abdominal mass and symptoms of gastrointestinal obstruction. DSRCTs are treated first with chemotherapy, then with surgery to remove the tumor, if possible. Radiation therapy is sometimes given, depending on the tumor. In addition, some people with DSRCT are candidates for a bone marrow transplant.

