Question: Is Ovarian Epithelial, Fallopian Tube, and Primary Peritoneal Cancer inherited ?
Answer: Some ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancers are caused by inherited gene mutations (changes). The genes in cells carry the hereditary information that is received from a persons parents. Hereditary ovarian cancer makes up about 20% of all cases of ovarian cancer. There are three hereditary patterns: ovarian cancer alone, ovarian and breast cancers, and ovarian and colon cancers.    Fallopian tube cancer and peritoneal cancer may also be caused by certain inherited gene mutations.   There are tests that can detect gene mutations. These genetic tests are sometimes done for members of families with a high risk of cancer. See the following PDQ summaries for more information:          -  Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, and Primary Peritoneal Cancer Prevention     -  Genetics of Breast and Gynecologic Cancers (for health professionals)

Question: Is Neuroblastoma inherited ?
Answer: Neuroblastoma is sometimes caused by a gene mutation (change) passed from the parent to the child. Gene mutations that increase the risk of neuroblastoma are sometimes inherited (passed from the parent to the child). In children with a gene mutation, neuroblastoma usually occurs at a younger age and more than one tumor may form in the adrenal glands.

Question: Is Retinoblastoma inherited ?
Answer: Retinoblastoma occurs in heritable and nonheritable forms.
                    A child is thought to have the heritable form of retinoblastoma when one of the following is true:         - There is a family history of retinoblastoma.    - There is a certain mutation (change) in the RB1 gene. The mutation in the RB1 gene may be passed from the parent to the child or it may occur in the egg or sperm before conception or soon after conception.    - There is more than one tumor in the eye or there is a tumor in both eyes.    - There is a tumor in one eye and the child is younger than 1 year.        After heritable retinoblastoma has been diagnosed and treated, new tumors may continue to form for a few years. Regular eye exams to check for new tumors are usually done every 2 to 4 months for at least 28 months.    Nonheritable retinoblastoma is retinoblastoma that is not the heritable form. Most cases of retinoblastoma are the nonheritable form.
                
                
                    Treatment for both forms of retinoblastoma should include genetic counseling.
                    Parents should receive genetic counseling (a discussion with a trained professional about the risk of genetic diseases) to discuss genetic testing to check for a mutation (change) in the RB1 gene. Genetic counseling also includes a discussion of the risk of retinoblastoma for the child and the child's brothers or sisters.
                
                
                    Children with a family history of retinoblastoma should have eye exams to check for retinoblastoma.
                    A child with a family history of retinoblastoma should have regular eye exams beginning early in life to check for retinoblastoma, unless it is known that the child does not have the RB1 gene change. Early diagnosis of retinoblastoma may mean the child will need less intense treatment.   Brothers or sisters of a child with retinoblastoma should have regular eye exams by an ophthalmologist until age 3 to 5 years, unless it is known that the brother or sister does not have the RB1 gene change.
                
                
                    A child who has heritable retinoblastoma has an increased risk of trilateral retinoblastoma and other cancers.
                    A child with heritable retinoblastoma has an increased risk of a pineal tumor in the brain. When retinoblastoma and a brain tumor occur at the same time, it is called trilateral retinoblastoma. The brain tumor is usually diagnosed between 20 and 36 months of age. Regular screening using MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) may be done for a child thought to have heritable retinoblastoma or for a child with retinoblastoma in one eye and a family history of the disease. CT (computerized tomography) scans are usually not used for routine screening in order to avoid exposing the child to ionizing radiation.    Heritable retinoblastoma also increases the child's risk of other types of cancer such as lung cancer, bladder cancer, or melanoma in later years. Regular follow-up exams are important.

Question: Is Male Breast Cancer inherited ?
Answer: Male breast cancer is sometimes caused by inherited gene mutations (changes).The genes in cells carry the hereditary information that is received from a persons parents. Hereditary breast cancer makes up about 5% to 10% of all breast cancer. Some mutated genes related to breast cancer are more common in certain ethnic groups. Men who have a mutated gene related to breast cancer have an increased risk of this disease.    There are tests that can detect (find) mutated genes. These genetic tests are sometimes done for members of families with a high risk of cancer. See the following PDQ summaries for more information:         -  Genetics of Breast and Gynecologic Cancers     -  Breast Cancer Prevention     -  Breast Cancer Screening

Question: Is Breast Cancer inherited ?
Answer: Breast cancer is sometimes caused by inherited gene mutations (changes). The genes in cells carry the hereditary information that is received from a persons parents. Hereditary breast cancer makes up about 5% to 10% of all breast cancer. Some mutated genes related to breast cancer are more common in certain ethnic groups.   Women who have certain gene mutations, such as a BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation, have an increased risk of breast cancer. These women also have an increased risk of ovarian cancer, and may have an increased risk of other cancers. Men who have a mutated gene related to breast cancer also have an increased risk of breast cancer. For more information, see the PDQ summary on Male Breast Cancer Treatment.   There are tests that can detect (find) mutated genes. These genetic tests are sometimes done for members of families with a high risk of cancer. See the PDQ summary on Genetics of Breast and Gynecologic Cancers for more information.

Question: Is cyclic neutropenia inherited ?
Answer: Cyclic neutropenia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Behet disease inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Behet disease are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A small percentage of all cases have been reported to run in families; however, the condition does not have a clear pattern of inheritance.

Question: Is Nijmegen breakage syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is congenital stromal corneal dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Beare-Stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. All reported cases have resulted from new mutations in the gene, and occurred in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is porphyria inherited ?
Answer: Some types of porphyria are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the gene in each cell is mutated. This single mutation is sufficient to reduce the activity of an enzyme needed for heme production, which increases the risk of developing signs and symptoms of porphyria. Autosomal dominant porphyrias include acute intermittent porphyria, most cases of erythropoietic protoporphyria, hereditary coproporphyria, and variegate porphyria. Although the gene mutations associated with some cases of porphyria cutanea tarda also have an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, most people with this form of porphyria do not have an inherited gene mutation.  Other porphyrias are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Porphyrias with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance include ALAD deficiency porphyria, congenital erythropoietic porphyria, and some cases of erythropoietic protoporphyria.  When erythropoietic protoporphyria is caused by mutations in the ALAS2 gene, it has an X-linked dominant pattern of inheritance. The ALAS2 gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell may be sufficient to cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. Males may experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  Mutations in the UROD gene are related to both porphyria cutanea tarda and hepatoerythropoietic porphyria. Individuals who inherit one altered copy of the UROD gene are at increased risk for porphyria cutanea tarda. (Multiple genetic and nongenetic factors contribute to this condition.) People who inherit two altered copies of the UROD gene in each cell develop hepatoerythropoietic porphyria.

Question: Is isodicentric chromosome 15 syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Isodicentric chromosome 15 syndrome is usually not inherited. The chromosomal change that causes the disorder typically occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) in a parent of the affected individual. Most affected individuals have no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is polymicrogyria inherited ?
Answer: Isolated polymicrogyria can have different inheritance patterns. Several forms of the condition, including bilateral frontoparietal polymicrogyria (which is associated with mutations in the ADGRG1 gene), have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. In autosomal recessive inheritance, both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Polymicrogyria can also have an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Other forms of polymicrogyria appear to have an X-linked pattern of inheritance. Genes associated with X-linked conditions are located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  Some people with polymicrogyria have relatives with the disorder, while other affected individuals have no family history of the condition. When an individual is the only affected person in his or her family, it can be difficult to determine the cause and possible inheritance pattern of the disorder.

Question: Is Pompe disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hereditary xanthinuria inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hyperkalemic periodic paralysis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is arginase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is neuroblastoma inherited ?
Answer: Most people with neuroblastoma have sporadic neuroblastoma, meaning the condition arose from somatic mutations in the body's cells and was not inherited.  About 1 to 2 percent of affected individuals have familial neuroblastoma. This form of the condition has an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell increases the risk of developing the disorder. However, the inheritance is considered to have incomplete penetrance because not everyone who inherits the altered gene from a parent develops neuroblastoma. Having the altered gene predisposes an individual to develop neuroblastoma, but an additional somatic mutation is probably needed to cause the condition.

Question: Is Birt-Hogg-Dub syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered FLCN gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Less commonly, the condition results from a new mutation in the gene and occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Having a single mutated copy of the FLCN gene in each cell is enough to cause the skin tumors and lung problems associated with Birt-Hogg-Dub syndrome. However, both copies of the FLCN gene are often mutated in the kidney tumors that occur with this condition. One of the mutations is inherited from a parent, while the other occurs by chance in a kidney cell during a person's lifetime. These genetic changes disable both copies of the FLCN gene, which allows kidney cells to divide uncontrollably and form tumors.

Question: Is N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Winchester syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Wolman disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is purine nucleoside phosphorylase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Cushing disease inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Cushing disease are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Rarely, the condition has been reported to run in families; however, it does not have a clear pattern of inheritance.  The various syndromes that have Cushing disease as a feature can have different inheritance patterns. Most of these disorders are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is pseudoxanthoma elasticum inherited ?
Answer: PXE is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  In a few cases, an affected individual has one affected parent and one parent without the signs and symptoms of the disorder. This situation resembles autosomal dominant inheritance, in which one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause a disorder and the mutation is typically inherited from one affected parent. In these cases of PXE, however, the parent without apparent symptoms has an ABCC6 gene mutation. The affected offspring inherits two altered genes, one from each parent. This appearance of autosomal dominant inheritance when the pattern is actually autosomal recessive is called pseudodominance.

Question: Is beta-mannosidosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is spondylocostal dysostosis inherited ?
Answer: Spondylocostal dysostosis can have different inheritance patterns. Types 1, 2, 3, and 4 are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. AD spondylocostal dysostosis is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder, although in these cases no causative genes have been identified. The signs and symptoms of spondylocostal dysostosis are typically more severe with autosomal recessive inheritance.

Question: Is biotinidase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the BTD gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with biotinidase deficiency each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not have any health problems associated with the condition.

Question: Is erythrokeratodermia variabilis et progressiva inherited ?
Answer: EKVP is most often inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new gene mutations and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  A few studies have suggested that EKVP can also have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. However, this inheritance pattern has only been reported in a small number of affected families, and not all researchers agree that it is truly autosomal recessive. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 inherited ?
Answer: PHA1 can have different inheritance patterns. When the condition is caused by mutations in the NR3C2 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. When PHA1 is caused by mutations in the SCNN1A, SCNN1B, or SCNN1G genes, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is trichothiodystrophy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hemophilia inherited ?
Answer: Hemophilia A and hemophilia B are inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The genes associated with these conditions are located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, it is very rare for females to have hemophilia. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one altered copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. Carrier females have about half the usual amount of coagulation factor VIII or coagulation factor IX, which is generally enough for normal blood clotting. However, about 10 percent of carrier females have less than half the normal amount of one of these coagulation factors; these individuals are at risk for abnormal bleeding, particularly after an injury, surgery, or tooth extraction.

Question: Is gnathodiaphyseal dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is primary spontaneous pneumothorax inherited ?
Answer: When this condition is caused by mutations in the FLCN gene, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, a person inherits the FLCN gene mutation from an affected parent. People who have an FLCN gene mutation associated with primary spontaneous pneumothorax all appear to develop blebs, but it is estimated that only 40 percent of those individuals go on to have a primary spontaneous pneumothorax.

Question: Is hereditary paraganglioma-pheochromocytoma inherited ?
Answer: Hereditary paraganglioma-pheochromocytoma is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of developing tumors. An additional mutation that deletes the normal copy of the gene is needed to cause the condition. This second mutation, called a somatic mutation, is acquired during a person's lifetime and is present only in tumor cells.  The risk of developing hereditary paraganglioma-pheochromocytoma types 1 and 2 is passed on only if the mutated copy of the gene is inherited from the father. The mechanism of this pattern of inheritance is unknown. The risk of developing types 3 and 4 can be inherited from the mother or the father.

Question: Is arterial tortuosity syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is deafness and myopia syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is primary sclerosing cholangitis inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of primary sclerosing cholangitis is unknown because many genetic and environmental factors are likely to be involved. This condition tends to cluster in families, however, and having an affected family member is a risk factor for developing the disease.

Question: Is succinyl-CoA:3-ketoacid CoA transferase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans inherited ?
Answer: Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans results from a new mutation that occurs in the body's cells after conception and is found only in the tumor cells. This type of genetic change is called a somatic mutation and is generally not inherited.

Question: Is Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of a child with an autosomal recessive disorder are not affected, but are carriers of one copy of the mutated gene. Some carriers of a KCNQ1 or KCNE1 mutation have signs and symptoms affecting the heart, but their hearing is usually normal.

Question: Is isolated Pierre Robin sequence inherited ?
Answer: Isolated Pierre Robin sequence is usually not inherited. It typically results from new genetic changes and occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family. When the condition is inherited, it follows an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered DNA in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is prolidase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Melnick-Needles syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. In most cases, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is restless legs syndrome inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of restless legs syndrome is usually unclear because many genetic and environmental factors can be involved. The disorder often runs in families: 40 to 90 percent of affected individuals report having at least one affected first-degree relative, such as a parent or sibling, and many families have multiple affected family members. Studies suggest that the early-onset form of the disorder is more likely to run in families than the late-onset form.  In some affected families, restless legs syndrome appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance suggests that one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. However, the genetic changes associated with restless legs syndrome in these families have not been identified.

Question: Is inclusion body myopathy with early-onset Paget disease and frontotemporal dementia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome occur in people with no apparent family history of the condition. These cases are described as sporadic and are not inherited.  Familial Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome accounts for only a small percentage of all cases of this condition. The familial form of the disorder typically has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In most cases, a person with familial Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome has inherited the condition from an affected parent.

Question: Is alpha thalassemia inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance of alpha thalassemia is complex. Each person inherits two alpha-globin alleles from each parent. If both parents are missing at least one alpha-globin allele, their children are at risk of having Hb Bart syndrome, HbH disease, or alpha thalassemia trait. The precise risk depends on how many alleles are missing and which combination of the HBA1 and HBA2 genes is affected.

Question: Is KBG syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Greenberg dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is familial porencephaly inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is psoriatic arthritis inherited ?
Answer: This condition has an unknown inheritance pattern. Approximately 40 percent of affected individuals have at least one close family member with psoriasis or psoriatic arthritis.

Question: Is carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is rheumatoid arthritis inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of rheumatoid arthritis is unclear because many genetic and environmental factors appear to be involved. However, having a close relative with rheumatoid arthritis likely increases a person's risk of developing the condition.

Question: Is generalized arterial calcification of infancy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is PPM-X syndrome inherited ?
Answer: More than 99 percent of PPM-X syndrome cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Many of these cases result from new mutations in the MECP2 gene.  A few families with more than one affected family member have been described. These cases helped researchers determine that PPM-X syndrome has an X-linked pattern of inheritance. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. One copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition, although females with one altered copy of the gene are usually less severely affected than males.

Question: Is spinocerebellar ataxia type 36 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.  In conditions that are caused by repeated segments of DNA, the number of repeats often increases when the altered gene is passed down from one generation to the next. Additionally, a larger number of repeats is usually associated with an earlier onset of signs and symptoms. This phenomenon is called anticipation. Some families affected by SCA36 have demonstrated anticipation while others have not. When anticipation is observed in SCA36, the mutation is most often passed down from the affected father.

Question: Is Niemann-Pick disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is RAPADILINO syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is steatocystoma multiplex inherited ?
Answer: When steatocystoma multiplex is caused by mutations in the KRT17 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the condition from an affected parent.  In people with steatocystoma multiplex who do not have identified KRT17 gene mutations, there is usually no family history of the disorder.

Question: Is alpha-mannosidosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Freeman-Sheldon syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Freeman-Sheldon syndrome can have different inheritance patterns. In some cases, the condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. The condition can also have an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  In some cases, the inheritance pattern is unknown.

Question: Is severe congenital neutropenia inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of severe congenital neutropenia are classified as sporadic and occur in people with no apparent history of the disorder in their family. Some of these cases are associated with changes in specific genes; however in some cases the cause of the disorder is unknown.  Many cases of severe congenital neutropenia are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  Less often, this condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  In rare cases, severe congenital neutropenia is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. In these cases, the gene that causes the condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is Vohwinkel syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is thanatophoric dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: Thanatophoric dysplasia is considered an autosomal dominant disorder because one mutated copy of the FGFR3 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Virtually all cases of thanatophoric dysplasia are caused by new mutations in the FGFR3 gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. No affected individuals are known to have had children; therefore, the disorder has not been passed to the next generation.

Question: Is GRACILE syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is coloboma inherited ?
Answer: Most often, isolated coloboma is not inherited, and there is only one affected individual in a family. However, the affected individual is still at risk of passing the coloboma on to his or her own children.  In cases when it is passed down in families, coloboma can have different inheritance patterns. Isolated coloboma is sometimes inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Isolated coloboma can also be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of a mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Less commonly, isolated coloboma may have X-linked dominant or X-linked recessive patterns of inheritance. X-linked means that a gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  X-linked dominant means that in females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of a gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of a gene in each cell causes the disorder. In most cases, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females.  X-linked recessive means that in females, a mutation would have to occur in both copies of a gene to cause the disorder. In males, one altered copy of a gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of a particular gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females.  When coloboma occurs as a feature of a genetic syndrome or chromosomal abnormality, it may cluster in families according to the inheritance pattern for that condition, which may be autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked.

Question: Is Brody myopathy inherited ?
Answer: Brody myopathy is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Some people with autosomal recessive Brody myopathy do not have an identified mutation in the ATP2A1 gene; the cause of the disease in these individuals is unknown.

Question: Is isolated lissencephaly sequence inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of ILS depends on the gene involved.  When ILS is caused by mutations in the PAFAH1B1 or TUBA1A gene, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  When mutations in the DCX gene cause ILS, it is inherited in an X-linked pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes in each cell. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the DCX gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females, who have two copies of the X chromosome, one altered copy of the DCX gene in each cell can lead to a less severe condition in females called subcortical band heterotopia, or may cause no symptoms at all. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is homocystinuria inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Although people who carry one mutated copy and one normal copy of the CBS gene do not have homocystinuria, they are more likely than people without a CBS mutation to have shortages (deficiencies) of vitamin B12 and folic acid.

Question: Is X-linked congenital stationary night blindness inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The NYX and CACNA1F genes are located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one altered copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. Carriers of an NYX or CACNA1F mutation can pass on the mutated gene, but most do not develop any of the vision problems associated with X-linked congenital stationary night blindness. However, carriers may have retinal changes that can be detected with an electroretinogram.

Question: Is cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia inherited ?
Answer: CN-AML is not usually inherited but arises from genetic changes in the body's cells that occur after conception. Rarely, an inherited mutation in the CEBPA gene causes acute myeloid leukemia. In these cases, the condition follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means that one copy of the altered CEBPA gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. These cases of CN-AML are referred to as familial acute myeloid leukemia with mutated CEBPA.

Question: Is adermatoglyphia inherited ?
Answer: Adermatoglyphia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered SMARCAD1 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In many cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.

Question: Is X-linked lissencephaly with abnormal genitalia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes in each cell. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females, who have two copies of the X chromosome, one altered copy of the gene in each cell can lead to less severe brain malformations or may cause no symptoms at all. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is prothrombin thrombophilia inherited ?
Answer: The risk of developing an abnormal clot in a blood vessel depends on whether a person inherits one or two copies of the F2 gene mutation that causes prothrombin thrombophilia. In the general population, the risk of developing an abnormal blood clot is about 1 in 1,000 people per year. Inheriting one copy of the F2 gene mutation increases that risk to 2 to 3 in 1,000. People who inherit two copies of the mutation, one from each parent, may have a risk as high as 20 in 1,000.

Question: Is catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia inherited ?
Answer: When CPVT results from mutations in the RYR2 gene, it has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In about half of cases, an affected person inherits an RYR2 gene mutation from one affected parent. The remaining cases result from new mutations in the RYR2 gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  When CPVT is caused by mutations in the CASQ2 gene, the condition has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means that both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Schinzel-Giedion syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Schinzel-Giedion syndrome results from new mutations in the SETBP1 gene and occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family. One copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is PRICKLE1-related progressive myoclonus epilepsy with ataxia inherited ?
Answer: Some cases of PRICKLE1-related progressive myoclonus epilepsy with ataxia are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Other cases of PRICKLE1-related progressive myoclonus epilepsy with ataxia are considered autosomal dominant because one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. These cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is autosomal dominant vitreoretinochoroidopathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.

Question: Is pyruvate carboxylase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is palmoplantar keratoderma with deafness inherited ?
Answer: Palmoplantar keratoderma with deafness can have different inheritance patterns. When this disorder is caused by GJB2 gene mutations, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  When palmoplantar keratoderma with deafness is caused by mutations in the MT-TS1 gene, it is inherited in a mitochondrial pattern, which is also known as maternal inheritance. This pattern of inheritance applies to genes contained in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). Because egg cells, but not sperm cells, contribute mitochondria to the developing embryo, children can only inherit disorders resulting from mtDNA mutations from their mother. These disorders can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females, but fathers do not pass traits associated with changes in mtDNA to their children.

Question: Is 47,XYY syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of 47,XYY syndrome are not inherited. The chromosomal change usually occurs as a random event during the formation of sperm cells. An error in cell division called nondisjunction can result in sperm cells with an extra copy of the Y chromosome. If one of these atypical reproductive cells contributes to the genetic makeup of a child, the child will have an extra Y chromosome in each of the body's cells.  46,XY/47,XYY mosaicism is also not inherited. It occurs as a random event during cell division in early embryonic development. As a result, some of an affected person's cells have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome (46,XY), and other cells have one X chromosome and two Y chromosomes (47,XYY).

Question: Is Leydig cell hypoplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Only people who have mutations in both copies of the LHCGR gene and are genetically male (with one X and one Y chromosome in each cell) have the characteristic signs of Leydig cell hypoplasia. Although people who are genetically female (with two X chromosomes in each cell) may inherit mutations in both copies of the LHCGR gene, they do not have Leydig cell hypoplasia because they do not have Leydig cells. They have normal female genitalia and normal breast and pubic hair development, but they may begin menstruation later than usual (after age 16) and have irregular menstrual periods. LHCGR gene mutations in females also prevent ovulation, leading to inability to have children (infertility).

Question: Is permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus inherited ?
Answer: Permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus can have different inheritance patterns.  When this condition is caused by mutations in the KCNJ11 or INS gene it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In about 90 percent of these cases, the condition results from new mutations in the gene and occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In the remaining cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent.  When permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus is caused by mutations in the ABCC8 gene, it may be inherited in either an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive pattern. In autosomal recessive inheritance, both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Less commonly the condition is caused by mutations in other genes, and in these cases it is also inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.

Question: Is Camurati-Engelmann disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is congenital contractural arachnodactyly inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Cole disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases of this disorder, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is congenital central hypoventilation syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  More than 90 percent of cases of CCHS result from new mutations in the PHOX2B gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Occasionally an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. The number of such cases has been increasing as better treatment has allowed more affected individuals to live into adulthood.  About 5 to 10 percent of affected individuals inherit the mutation from a seemingly unaffected parent with somatic mosaicism. Somatic mosaicism means that some of the body's cells have a PHOX2B gene mutation, and others do not. A parent with mosaicism for a PHOX2B gene mutation may not show any signs or symptoms of CCHS.

Question: Is Aicardi syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Nearly all known cases of Aicardi syndrome are sporadic, which means that they are not passed down through generations and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. The disorder is believed to result from new gene mutations.  Aicardi syndrome is classified as an X-linked dominant condition. While the gene associated with this disorder is not known, it is believed to be located on the X chromosome. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell is nearly always lethal very early in development, so almost all babies with Aicardi syndrome are female. However, a few affected males with an extra copy of the X chromosome in each cell (47,XXY) have been identified. Males with a 47,XXY chromosome pattern also have a condition called Klinefelter syndrome.

Question: Is medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hereditary hemochromatosis inherited ?
Answer: Types 1, 2, and 3 hemochromatosis are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Type 4 hemochromatosis is distinguished by its autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. With this type of inheritance, one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.

Question: Is incontinentia pigmenti inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Some cells produce a normal amount of IKBKG protein and other cells produce none. The resulting imbalance in cells producing this protein leads to the signs and symptoms of incontinentia pigmenti.  In males (who have only one X chromosome), most IKBKG mutations result in a total loss of the IKBKG protein. A lack of this protein appears to be lethal early in development, so few males are born with incontinentia pigmenti. Affected males who survive may have an IKBKG mutation with relatively mild effects, an IKBKG mutation in only some of the body's cells (mosaicism), or an extra copy of the X chromosome in each cell.  Some people with incontinentia pigmenti inherit an IKBKG mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Stve-Wiedemann syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome inherited ?
Answer: In most people with ALPS, including the majority of those with FAS gene mutations, this condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In these cases, an affected person usually inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases with an autosomal dominant pattern result from new (de novo) gene mutations that occur early in embryonic development in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  In a small number of cases, including some cases caused by FAS gene mutations, ALPS is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  ALPS can also arise from a mutation in lymphocytes that is not inherited but instead occurs during an individual's lifetime. This alteration is called a somatic mutation.

Question: Is SOX2 anophthalmia syndrome inherited ?
Answer: SOX2 anophthalmia syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the SOX2 gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In a small number of cases, people with SOX2 anophthalmia syndrome have inherited the altered gene from an unaffected parent who has a SOX2 mutation only in their sperm or egg cells. This phenomenon is called germline mosaicism.

Question: Is spastic paraplegia type 31 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is microphthalmia with linear skin defects syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Some cells produce a normal amount of the holocytochrome c-type synthase enzyme and other cells produce none. The resulting overall reduction in the amount of this enzyme leads to the signs and symptoms of microphthalmia with linear skin defects syndrome.  In males (who have only one X chromosome), mutations result in a total loss of the holocytochrome c-type synthase enzyme. A lack of this enzyme appears to be lethal very early in development, so almost no males are born with microphthalmia with linear skin defects syndrome. A few affected individuals with male appearance but who have two X chromosomes have been identified.  Most cases of microphthalmia with linear skin defects syndrome occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. These cases usually result from the deletion of a segment of the X chromosome during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) or in early fetal development. They may also result from a new mutation in the HCCS gene.

Question: Is dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa inherited ?
Answer: The most severe types of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Autosomal recessive inheritance means that both copies of the COL7A1 gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  A milder form of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. About 70 percent of all people with autosomal dominant dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa have inherited an altered COL7A1 gene from an affected parent. The remaining 30 percent of affected people have the condition as a result of a new mutation in the COL7A1 gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Leber congenital amaurosis inherited ?
Answer: Leber congenital amaurosis usually has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  When Leber congenital amaurosis is caused by mutations in the CRX or IMPDH1 genes, the disorder has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most of these cases, an affected person inherits a gene mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is aniridia inherited ?
Answer: Aniridia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In approximately two-thirds of cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. The remaining one-third of cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Because females have two copies of the X chromosome, one altered copy of the gene in each cell usually leads to less severe symptoms in females than in males, or may cause no symptoms at all. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one altered copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. She can pass on the gene, but generally does not experience signs and symptoms of the disorder. Some females who carry a PLP1 mutation, however, may experience muscle stiffness and a decrease in intellectual function. Females with one PLP1 mutation have an increased risk of experiencing progressive deterioration of cognitive functions (dementia) later in life.

Question: Is mucolipidosis type IV inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is thrombocytopenia-absent radius syndrome inherited ?
Answer: TAR syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell are altered. In this disorder, either both copies of the RBM8A gene in each cell have mutations or, more commonly, one copy of the gene has a mutation and the other is lost as part of a deleted segment on chromosome 1. The affected individual usually inherits an RBM8A gene mutation from one parent. In about 75 percent of cases, the affected person inherits a copy of chromosome 1 with the 200-kb deletion from the other parent. In the remaining cases, the deletion occurs during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) or in early fetal development. Although parents of an individual with TAR syndrome can carry an RBM8A gene mutation or a 200-kb deletion, they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is multiple pterygium syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hereditary diffuse gastric cancer inherited ?
Answer: HDGC is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered CDH1 gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of developing cancer.  In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.

Question: Is chronic atrial and intestinal dysrhythmia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type II inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is immune dysregulation, polyendocrinopathy, enteropathy, X-linked syndrome inherited ?
Answer: When IPEX syndrome is due to mutations in the FOXP3 gene, it is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The FOXP3 gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation must be present in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  Some people have a condition that appears identical to IPEX syndrome, but they do not have mutations in the FOXP3 gene. The inheritance pattern for this IPEX-like syndrome is unknown, but females can be affected.

Question: Is desmoid tumor inherited ?
Answer: Most desmoid tumors are sporadic and are not inherited. Sporadic tumors result from gene mutations that occur during a person's lifetime, called somatic mutations. A somatic mutation in one copy of the gene is sufficient to cause the disorder. Somatic mutations in either the CTNNB1 or the APC gene can cause sporadic desmoid tumors.  An inherited mutation in one copy of the APC gene causes familial adenomatous polyposis and predisposes affected individuals to develop desmoid tumors. The desmoid tumors occur when a somatic mutation occurs in the second copy of the APC gene. In these cases, the condition is sometimes called hereditary desmoid disease.

Question: Is X-linked sideroblastic anemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one altered copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. Carriers of an ALAS2 mutation can pass on the mutated gene, but most do not develop any symptoms associated with X-linked sideroblastic anemia. However, carriers may have abnormally small, pale red blood cells and related changes that can be detected with a blood test.

Question: Is GM2-gangliosidosis, AB variant inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is CHST3-related skeletal dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is multiple cutaneous and mucosal venous malformations inherited ?
Answer: VMCM is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of developing venous malformations.  Some gene mutations are acquired during a person's lifetime and are present only in certain cells. These changes, which are not inherited, are called somatic mutations. Researchers have discovered that some VMCM lesions have one inherited and one somatic TEK gene mutation. It is not known if the somatic mutation occurs before or after the venous malformation forms. As lesions are localized and not all veins are malformed, it is thought that the inherited mutation alone is not enough to cause venous malformations.  In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.

Question: Is spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia, Strudwick type inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes in each cell. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Because females have two copies of the X chromosome, one altered copy of the gene in each cell usually leads to less severe symptoms in females than in males, or it may cause no symptoms at all.  Some females who have one altered copy of the GPC3 gene have distinctive facial features including an upturned nose, a wide mouth, and a prominent chin. Their fingernails may be malformed and they can have extra nipples. Skeletal abnormalities, including extra spinal bones (vertebrae), are also possible in affected females. Other females who carry one altered copy of the GPC3 gene do not have these features or any other medical problems associated with Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome.

Question: Is uromodulin-associated kidney disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is X-linked agammaglobulinemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  About half of affected individuals do not have a family history of XLA. In most of these cases, the affected person's mother is a carrier of one altered BTK gene. Carriers do not have the immune system abnormalities associated with XLA, but they can pass the altered gene to their children. In other cases, the mother is not a carrier and the affected individual has a new mutation in the BTK gene.

Question: Is juvenile Batten disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is potassium-aggravated myotonia inherited ?
Answer: Potassium-aggravated myotonia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits a mutation in the SCN4A gene from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is DICER1 syndrome inherited ?
Answer: DICER1 syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene is sufficient to cause the disorder. It is important to note that people inherit an increased risk of tumors; many people who have mutations in the DICER1 gene do not develop abnormal growths.

Question: Is Graves disease inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of Graves disease is unclear because many genetic and environmental factors appear to be involved. However, the condition can cluster in families, and having a close relative with Graves disease or another autoimmune disorder likely increases a person's risk of developing the condition.

Question: Is McCune-Albright syndrome inherited ?
Answer: McCune-Albright syndrome is not inherited. Instead, it is caused by a random mutation in the GNAS gene that occurs very early in development. As a result, some of the body's cells have a normal version of the GNAS gene, while other cells have the mutated version. This phenomenon is called mosaicism. The severity of this disorder and its specific features depend on the number and location of cells that have the mutated GNAS gene.

Question: Is SOST-related sclerosing bone dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is rippling muscle disease inherited ?
Answer: Rippling muscle disease is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, but it is occasionally inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.  Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of an altered CAV3 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with rippling muscle disease or another caveolinopathy. Rare cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of caveolinopathies in their family.  Autosomal recessive inheritance means that both copies of the CAV3 gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. People with autosomal recessive rippling muscle disease generally have more severe signs and symptoms than do people with the autosomal dominant form.

Question: Is juvenile myoclonic epilepsy inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy is not completely understood. When the condition is caused by mutations in the GABRA1 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. The inheritance pattern of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy caused by mutations in the EFHC1 gene is not known.  Although juvenile myoclonic epilepsy can run in families, many cases occur in people with no family history of the disorder.

Question: Is prostate cancer inherited ?
Answer: Many cases of prostate cancer are not related to inherited gene changes. These cancers are associated with somatic mutations that occur only in certain cells in the prostate.  When prostate cancer is related to inherited gene changes, the way that cancer risk is inherited depends on the gene involved. For example, mutations in the BRCA1, BRCA2, and HOXB13 genes are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase a person's chance of developing cancer. In other cases, the inheritance of prostate cancer risk is unclear. It is important to note that people inherit an increased risk of cancer, not the disease itself. Not all people who inherit mutations in these genes will develop cancer.

Question: Is maternally inherited diabetes and deafness inherited ?
Answer: MIDD is inherited in a mitochondrial pattern, which is also known as maternal inheritance. This pattern of inheritance applies to genes contained in mtDNA. Because egg cells, but not sperm cells, contribute mitochondria to the developing embryo, children can only inherit disorders resulting from mtDNA mutations from their mother. These disorders can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females, but fathers do not pass traits associated with changes in mtDNA to their children.  Most of the body's cells contain thousands of mitochondria, each with one or more copies of mtDNA. These cells can have a mix of mitochondria containing mutated and unmutated DNA (heteroplasmy). The severity of MIDD is thought to be associated with the percentage of mitochondria with the mtDNA mutation.

Question: Is Klippel-Feil syndrome inherited ?
Answer: When Klippel-Feil syndrome is caused by mutations in the GDF6 or GDF3 genes, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  When caused by mutations in the MEOX1 gene, Klippel-Feil syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  As a feature of another disorder, Klippel-Feil syndrome is inherited in whatever pattern the other disorder follows.

Question: Is abdominal wall defect inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of abdominal wall defect are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Multiple genetic and environmental factors likely play a part in determining the risk of developing this disorder.  When an abdominal wall defect, most often omphalocele, is a feature of a genetic condition, it is inherited in the pattern of that condition.

Question: Is REN-related kidney disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is familial hyperaldosteronism inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is acral peeling skin syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is otospondylomegaepiphyseal dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is Czech dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: Czech dysplasia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered COL2A1 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  All known individuals with Czech dysplasia inherited the mutation from a parent with the condition.

Question: Is Rett syndrome inherited ?
Answer: In more than 99 percent of people with Rett syndrome, there is no history of the disorder in their family. Many of these cases result from new mutations in the MECP2 gene.  A few families with more than one affected family member have been described. These cases helped researchers determine that classic Rett syndrome and variants caused by MECP2 gene mutations have an X-linked dominant pattern of inheritance. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. The inheritance is dominant if one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition.  Males with mutations in the MECP2 gene often die in infancy. However, a small number of males with a genetic change involving MECP2 have developed signs and symptoms similar to those of Rett syndrome, including intellectual disability, seizures, and movement problems. In males, this condition is described as MECP2-related severe neonatal encephalopathy.

Question: Is congenital afibrinogenemia inherited ?
Answer: Congenital afibrinogenemia is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene. The parents have about half the normal level of fibrinogen in their blood but typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is GM1 gangliosidosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is alkaptonuria inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is benign chronic pemphigus inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Silver syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Silver syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In these cases, the affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. However, some people who inherit the altered gene never develop features of Silver syndrome. (This situation is known as reduced penetrance.) It is unclear why some people with a mutated gene develop the disease and other people with a mutated gene do not.  Rarely, Silver syndrome is caused by new mutations in the gene and occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is hereditary folate malabsorption inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is MECP2 duplication syndrome inherited ?
Answer: MECP2 duplication syndrome is inherited in an X-linked pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a duplication of the only copy of the MECP2 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a duplication of one of the two copies of the gene typically does not cause the disorder. Females usually do not have signs and symptoms of MECP2 duplication syndrome because the X chromosome that contains the duplication may be turned off (inactive) due to a process called X-inactivation.  Early in embryonic development in females, one of the two X chromosomes is permanently inactivated in somatic cells (cells other than egg and sperm cells). X-inactivation ensures that females, like males, have only one active copy of the X chromosome in each body cell. Usually X-inactivation occurs randomly, such that each X chromosome is active in about half of the body cells. Sometimes X-inactivation is not random, and one X chromosome is active in more than half of cells. When X-inactivation does not occur randomly, it is called skewed X-inactivation.  Research shows that females with an MECP2 gene duplication have skewed X-inactivation, which results in the inactivation of the X chromosome containing the duplication in most cells of the body. This skewed X inactivation ensures that only the chromosome with the normal MECP2 gene is expressed. This skewed X-inactivation is why females with an MECP2 gene duplication typically do not have any features related to the additional genetic material.

Question: Is paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria inherited ?
Answer: This condition is acquired, rather than inherited. It results from new mutations in the PIGA gene, and generally occurs in people with no previous history of the disorder in their family. The condition is not passed down to children of affected individuals.

Question: Is glycine encephalopathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is spinocerebellar ataxia type 6 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.  As the altered CACNA1A gene is passed down from one generation to the next, the length of the CAG trinucleotide repeat often slightly increases. A larger number of repeats is usually associated with an earlier onset of signs and symptoms. This phenomenon is called anticipation.

Question: Is LAMA2-related muscular dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is mandibulofacial dysostosis with microcephaly inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In other cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from a parent. The parent may be mildly affected or may be unaffected. Sometimes the parent has the gene mutation only in some or all of their sperm or egg cells, which is known as germline mosaicism. In these cases, the parent has no signs or symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Guillain-Barr syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Almost all cases of Guillain-Barr syndrome are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the condition in their family. A few families with more than one affected family member have been described; however, the condition does not have a clear pattern of inheritance. Multiple genetic and environmental factors likely play a part in determining the risk of developing this condition. As a result, inheriting a genetic variation linked with Guillain-Barr syndrome does not mean that a person will develop the condition.

Question: Is cystic fibrosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is juvenile polyposis syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Juvenile polyposis syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In approximately 75 percent of cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. The remaining 25 percent of cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is 22q11.2 duplication inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance of 22q11.2 duplication is considered autosomal dominant because the duplication affects one of the two copies of chromosome 22 in each cell. About 70 percent of affected individuals inherit the duplication from a parent. In other cases, the duplication is not inherited and instead occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) or in early fetal development. These affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family, although they can pass the duplication to their children.

Question: Is Barth syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is Moebius syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Moebius syndrome are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A small percentage of all cases have been reported to run in families; however, the condition does not have a single clear pattern of inheritance.

Question: Is adult-onset leukoencephalopathy with axonal spheroids and pigmented glia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Y chromosome infertility inherited ?
Answer: Because Y chromosome infertility impedes the ability to father children, this condition is usually caused by new deletions on the Y chromosome and occurs in men with no history of the disorder in their family. When men with Y chromosome infertility do father children, either naturally or with the aid of assisted reproductive technologies, they pass on the genetic changes on the Y chromosome to all their sons. As a result, the sons will also have Y chromosome infertility. This form of inheritance is called Y-linked. Daughters, who do not inherit the Y chromosome, are not affected.

Question: Is Larsen syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Autosomal recessive inheritance of Larsen syndrome has been reported in a small number of families. Autosomal recessive means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. In some of these cases, the appearance of autosomal recessive inheritance may actually result from multiple siblings in a family each inheriting a single altered gene from an unaffected parent who has an FLNB mutation only in some or all of their sperm or egg cells. When a mutation is present only in reproductive cells, it is known as germline mosaicism.  A few rarer conditions with overlapping signs and symptoms and autosomal recessive inheritance have sometimes been diagnosed as Larsen syndrome, but they are now generally considered to be different disorders because they are typically more severe and are not caused by FLNB gene mutations.

Question: Is hyperprolinemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. In about one-third of cases, individuals carrying one copy of an altered PRODH gene have moderately elevated levels of proline in their blood, but these levels do not cause any health problems. Individuals with one altered ALDH4A1 gene have normal levels of proline in their blood.

Question: Is atelosteogenesis type 1 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Almost all cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Between 85 and 90 percent of all cases of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome are not inherited. They result from a chromosomal deletion that occurs as a random (de novo) event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. More complex chromosomal rearrangements can also occur as de novo events, which may help explain the variability in the condition's signs and symptoms. De novo chromosomal changes occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  A small percentage of all people with Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome have the disorder as a result of an unusual chromosomal abnormality such as a ring chromosome 4. Ring chromosomes occur when a chromosome breaks in two places and the ends of the chromosome arms fuse together to form a circular structure. In the process, genes near the ends of the chromosome are lost.  In the remaining cases of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome, an affected individual inherits a copy of chromosome 4 with a deleted segment. In these cases, one of the individual's parents carries a chromosomal rearrangement between chromosome 4 and another chromosome. This rearrangement is called a balanced translocation. No genetic material is gained or lost in a balanced translocation, so these chromosomal changes usually do not cause any health problems. However, translocations can become unbalanced as they are passed to the next generation. Some people with Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome inherit an unbalanced translocation that deletes genes near the end of the short arm of chromosome 4. A loss of these genes results in the intellectual disability, slow growth, and other health problems characteristic of this disorder.

Question: Is Sandhoff disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hereditary hyperekplexia inherited ?
Answer: Hereditary hyperekplexia has different inheritance patterns.  This condition can be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases may result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Hereditary hyperekplexia can also be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive disorder typically each carry one copy of the altered gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the disorder.  Rarely, hereditary hyperekplexia is inherited in an X-linked pattern. In these cases, the gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is MECP2-related severe neonatal encephalopathy inherited ?
Answer: MECP2-related severe neonatal encephalopathy has an X-linked pattern of inheritance. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes in each cell. In males, who have only one X chromosome, a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females, who have two X chromosomes, a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is usually sufficient to cause the condition. However, females with a mutation in the MECP2 gene do not develop MECP2-related severe neonatal encephalopathy. Instead, they typically develop Rett syndrome, which has signs and symptoms that include intellectual disability, seizures, and movement problems.  In some cases, males with MECP2-related severe neonatal encephalopathy inherit the mutation from a mother with mild neurological problems or from a mother with no features related to the mutation. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Andermann syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is congenital myasthenic syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is most commonly inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Rarely, this condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is cherubism inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Alport syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Alport syndrome can have different inheritance patterns. About 80 percent of cases are caused by mutations in the COL4A5 gene and are inherited in an X-linked pattern. This gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the COL4A5 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause kidney failure and other severe symptoms of the disorder. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one copy of the COL4A5 gene usually only results in hematuria, but some women experience more severe symptoms. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In approximately 15 percent of cases, Alport syndrome results from mutations in both copies of the COL4A3 or COL4A4 gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. The parents of an individual with the autosomal recessive form of this condition each have one copy of the mutated gene and are called carriers. Some carriers are unaffected and others develop a less severe condition called thin basement membrane nephropathy, which is characterized by hematuria.  Alport syndrome has autosomal dominant inheritance in about 5 percent of cases. People with this form of Alport syndrome have one mutation in either the COL4A3 or COL4A4 gene in each cell. It remains unclear why some individuals with one mutation in the COL4A3 or COL4A4 gene have autosomal dominant Alport syndrome and others have thin basement membrane nephropathy.

Question: Is branchiootorenal/branchiootic syndrome inherited ?
Answer: BOR/BO syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In about 90 percent of cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. The remaining cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is deafness-dystonia-optic neuronopathy syndrome inherited ?
Answer: DDON syndrome is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause DDON syndrome. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. Females who carry one altered copy of the TIMM8A gene are typically unaffected; however, they may develop mild hearing loss and dystonia. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is Milroy disease inherited ?
Answer: Milroy disease is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In many cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases may result from new mutations in the FLT4 gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. About 10 percent to 15 percent of people with a mutation in the FLT4 gene do not develop the features of Milroy disease.

Question: Is frontonasal dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: When frontonasal dysplasia is caused by mutations in the ALX1 or ALX3 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  When ALX4 gene mutations cause frontonasal dysplasia, the condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is FOXG1 syndrome inherited ?
Answer: FOXG1 syndrome is considered an autosomal dominant condition, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. All reported cases have resulted from new mutations or deletions involving the FOXG1 gene and have occurred in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Because the condition is so severe, no one with FOXG1 syndrome has been known to have children.

Question: Is hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is juvenile idiopathic arthritis inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of juvenile idiopathic arthritis are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A small percentage of cases of juvenile idiopathic arthritis have been reported to run in families, although the inheritance pattern of the condition is unclear. A sibling of a person with juvenile idiopathic arthritis has an estimated risk of developing the condition that is about 12 times that of the general population.

Question: Is sudden infant death with dysgenesis of the testes syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is cystinuria inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hyperferritinemia-cataract syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered NOTCH3 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. A few rare cases may result from new mutations in the NOTCH3 gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is junctional epidermolysis bullosa inherited ?
Answer: Both types of junctional epidermolysis bullosa are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Langerhans cell histiocytosis inherited ?
Answer: Langerhans cell histiocytosis is usually not inherited and typically occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  A few families with multiple cases of Langerhans cell histiocytosis have been identified, but the inheritance pattern is unknown.

Question: Is childhood myocerebrohepatopathy spectrum inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Crouzon syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Hajdu-Cheney syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered NOTCH2 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Less commonly, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent.

Question: Is molybdenum cofactor deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Molybdenum cofactor deficiency has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. An affected individual usually inherits one altered copy of the gene from each parent. Parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  At least one individual with molybdenum cofactor deficiency inherited two mutated copies of the MOCS1 gene through a mechanism called uniparental isodisomy. In this case, an error occurred during the formation of egg or sperm cells, and the child received two copies of the mutated gene from one parent instead of one copy from each parent.

Question: Is focal dermal hypoplasia inherited ?
Answer: Focal dermal hypoplasia is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. The X chromosome that contains the mutated PORCN gene may be turned on (active) or turned off (inactive) due to a process called X-inactivation. Early in embryonic development in females, one of the two X chromosomes is permanently inactivated in somatic cells (cells other than egg and sperm cells). X-inactivation ensures that females, like males, have only one active copy of the X chromosome in each body cell. Usually X-inactivation occurs randomly, so that each X chromosome is active in about half the body's cells. Sometimes X-inactivation is not random, and one X chromosome is active in more than half of cells. When X-inactivation does not occur randomly, it is called skewed X-inactivation. Researchers suspect that the distribution of active and inactive X chromosomes may play a role in determining the severity of focal dermal hypoplasia in females.  In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the PORCN gene in each cell appears to be lethal very early in development. A male can be born with focal dermal hypoplasia if he has a PORCN gene mutation in only some of his cells (known as mosaicism). Affected males typically experience milder symptoms of the disorder than females because more of their cells have a functional copy of the PORCN gene. A characteristic of focal dermal hypoplasia is that mildly affected fathers cannot pass this condition to their sons, but they can pass it to their daughters, who are usually more severely affected than they are. Women with focal dermal hypoplasia cannot pass this condition to their sons (because it is lethal early in development) but can pass it to their daughters.  Most cases of focal dermal hypoplasia in females result from new mutations in the PORCN gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. When focal dermal hypoplasia occurs in males, it always results from a new mutation in this gene that is not inherited. Only about 5 percent of females with this condition inherit a mutation in the PORCN gene from a parent.

Question: Is limb-girdle muscular dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy can have different inheritance patterns.  Most forms of this condition are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Several rare forms of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Pitt-Hopkins syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is CHOPS syndrome inherited ?
Answer: CHOPS syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. All known cases of this condition result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene that occur during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. Affected individuals have no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Netherton syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Kabuki syndrome inherited ?
Answer: When Kabuki syndrome is caused by mutations in the KMT2D gene, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  When Kabuki syndrome is caused by mutations in the KDM6A gene, it is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The KDM6A gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  Most cases of Kabuki syndrome result from a new mutation in one of these genes and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In a few cases, an affected person is believed to have inherited the mutation from one affected parent.

Question: Is pyruvate kinase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is PMM2-congenital disorder of glycosylation inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is trisomy 13 inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of trisomy 13 are not inherited and result from random events during the formation of eggs and sperm in healthy parents. An error in cell division called nondisjunction results in a reproductive cell with an abnormal number of chromosomes. For example, an egg or sperm cell may gain an extra copy of chromosome 13. If one of these atypical reproductive cells contributes to the genetic makeup of a child, the child will have an extra chromosome 13 in each cell of the body.  Translocation trisomy 13 can be inherited. An unaffected person can carry a rearrangement of genetic material between chromosome 13 and another chromosome. These rearrangements are called balanced translocations because there is no extra material from chromosome 13. A person with a balanced translocation involving chromosome 13 has an increased chance of passing extra material from chromosome 13 to their children.

Question: Is autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia type 1 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Chediak-Higashi syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Bartter syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is congenital plasminogen deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy inherited ?
Answer: Susceptibility to intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of developing the disorder. Some women with an altered gene do not develop intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy. Many other factors likely contribute to the risk of developing this complex disorder.

Question: Is methemoglobinemia, beta-globin type inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is glucose-galactose malabsorption inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. In some cases, individuals with one altered gene have reduced levels of glucose absorption capacity as measured in laboratory tests, but this has not generally been shown to have significant health effects.

Question: Is fibronectin glomerulopathy inherited ?
Answer: When fibronectin glomerulopathy is caused by mutations in the FN1 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some of these cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Some people who have the altered FN1 gene never develop the condition, a situation known as reduced penetrance.

Question: Is Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome is almost always sporadic, which means that it occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Studies suggest that the condition may result from gene mutations that are not inherited. These genetic changes, which are called somatic mutations, probably occur very early in development and are present only in certain cells. Somatic mutations could explain why the signs and symptoms of Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome are often limited to specific areas of the body. However, it is unclear whether somatic mutations are responsible for this condition because no associated genes have been found.

Question: Is Aarskog-Scott syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Aarskog-Scott syndrome is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause Aarskog-Scott syndrome. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. Females who carry one altered copy of the FGD1 gene may show mild signs of the condition, such as hypertelorism, short stature, or a widow's peak hairline. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is fibrochondrogenesis inherited ?
Answer: Fibrochondrogenesis is generally inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they usually do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. In a few reported cases, parents of children with fibrochondrogenesis have had mild features that may be related to the condition, including slightly short stature, myopia, cataracts, joint pain, and hearing loss.  In at least one case of fibrochondrogenesis caused by a COL11A2 gene mutation, the condition was inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In this case, the condition resulted from a new (de novo) mutation in the gene that occurred during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) in one of the affected individual's parents. There was no history of the disorder in the family.

Question: Is congenital hyperinsulinism inherited ?
Answer: Congenital hyperinsulinism can have different inheritance patterns, usually depending on the form of the condition. At least two forms of the condition have been identified. The most common form is the diffuse form, which occurs when all of the beta cells in the pancreas secrete too much insulin. The focal form of congenital hyperinsulinism occurs when only some of the beta cells over-secrete insulin.  Most often, the diffuse form of congenital hyperinsulinism is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Less frequently, the diffuse form is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  The inheritance of the focal form of congenital hyperinsulinism is more complex. For most genes, both copies are turned on (active) in all cells, but for a small subset of genes, one of the two copies is turned off (inactive). Most people with the focal form of this condition inherit one copy of the mutated, inactive gene from their unaffected father. During embryonic development, a mutation occurs in the other, active copy of the gene. This second mutation is found within only some cells in the pancreas. As a result, some pancreatic beta cells have abnormal insulin secretion, while other beta cells function normally.

Question: Is Floating-Harbor syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  Most cases of Floating-Harbor syndrome result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. However, in some cases an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent.

Question: Is dilated cardiomyopathy with ataxia syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Sjgren syndrome inherited ?
Answer: A predisposition to develop autoimmune disorders can be passed through generations in families. Relatives of people with Sjgren syndrome are at an increased risk of developing autoimmune diseases, although they are not necessarily more likely to develop Sjgren syndrome in particular. The inheritance pattern of this predisposition is unknown.

Question: Is spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. An affected person usually inherits the altered gene from one affected parent. However, some people with SCA1 do not have a parent with the disorder.  As the altered ATXN1 gene is passed down from one generation to the next, the length of the CAG trinucleotide repeat often increases. A larger number of repeats is usually associated with an earlier onset of signs and symptoms. This phenomenon is called anticipation. Anticipation tends to be more prominent when the ATXN1 gene is inherited from a person's father (paternal inheritance) than when it is inherited from a person's mother (maternal inheritance).  Individuals who have around 35 CAG repeats in the ATXN1 gene do not develop SCA1, but they are at risk of having children who will develop the disorder. As the gene is passed from parent to child, the size of the CAG trinucleotide repeat may lengthen into the range associated with SCA1 (40 repeats or more).

Question: Is MEGDEL syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is spinal muscular atrophy with progressive myoclonic epilepsy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Coats plus syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is retinoblastoma inherited ?
Answer: Researchers estimate that 40 percent of all retinoblastomas are germinal, which means that RB1 mutations occur in all of the body's cells, including reproductive cells (sperm or eggs). People with germinal retinoblastoma may have a family history of the disease, and they are at risk of passing on the mutated RB1 gene to the next generation. The other 60 percent of retinoblastomas are non-germinal, which means that RB1 mutations occur only in the eye and cannot be passed to the next generation.  In germinal retinoblastoma, mutations in the RB1 gene appear to be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. Autosomal dominant inheritance suggests that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase cancer risk. A person with germinal retinoblastoma may inherit an altered copy of the gene from one parent, or the altered gene may be the result of a new mutation that occurs in an egg or sperm cell or just after fertilization. For retinoblastoma to develop, a mutation involving the other copy of the RB1 gene must occur in retinal cells during the person's lifetime. This second mutation usually occurs in childhood, typically leading to the development of retinoblastoma in both eyes.  In the non-germinal form of retinoblastoma, typically only one eye is affected and there is no family history of the disease. Affected individuals are born with two normal copies of the RB1 gene. Then, usually in early childhood, both copies of the RB1 gene in retinal cells acquire mutations or are lost. People with non-germinal retinoblastoma are not at risk of passing these RB1 mutations to their children. However, without genetic testing it can be difficult to tell whether a person with retinoblastoma in one eye has the germinal or the non-germinal form of the disease.

Question: Is Donohue syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is amelogenesis imperfecta inherited ?
Answer: Amelogenesis imperfecta can have different inheritance patterns depending on the gene that is altered. Many cases are caused by mutations in the FAM83H gene and are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. This type of inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Some cases caused by mutations in the ENAM gene also have an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern.  Amelogenesis imperfecta can also be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern; this form of the disorder can result from mutations in the ENAM or MMP20 gene. Autosomal recessive inheritance means two copies of the gene in each cell are altered. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  About 5 percent of amelogenesis imperfecta cases are caused by mutations in the AMELX gene and are inherited in an X-linked pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In most cases, males with X-linked amelogenesis imperfecta experience more severe dental abnormalities than females with this form of this condition.  Other cases of amelogenesis imperfecta result from new gene mutations and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Roberts syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is familial paroxysmal nonkinesigenic dyskinesia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is typically sufficient to cause the disorder. Almost everyone with a mutation in the PNKD gene will develop familial paroxysmal nonkinesigenic dyskinesia. In all reported cases, an affected person has inherited the mutation from one parent.

Question: Is Wolfram syndrome inherited ?
Answer: When Wolfram syndrome is caused by mutations in the WFS1 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Some studies have shown that people who carry one copy of a WFS1 gene mutation are at increased risk of developing individual features of Wolfram syndrome or related features, such as type 2 diabetes, hearing loss, or psychiatric illness. However, other studies have found no increased risk in these individuals.  Wolfram syndrome caused by mutations in the CISD2 gene is also inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.

Question: Is preeclampsia inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of preeclampsia do not seem to be inherited. The tendency to develop preeclampsia does seem to run in some families; however, the inheritance pattern is unknown.

Question: Is Ollier disease inherited ?
Answer: Ollier disease is not inherited. The mutations that cause this disorder are somatic, which means they occur during a person's lifetime. A somatic mutation occurs in a single cell. As that cell continues to grow and divide, the cells derived from it also have the same mutation. In Ollier disease, the mutation is thought to occur in a cell during early development before birth; cells that arise from that abnormal cell have the mutation, while the body's other cells do not. This situation is called mosaicism.

Question: Is autosomal recessive hypotrichosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Liddle syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is familial male-limited precocious puberty inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant, male-limited pattern, which means one copy of the altered LHCGR gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder in males. Females with mutations associated with familial male-limited precocious puberty appear to be unaffected. In some cases, an affected male inherits the mutation from either his mother or his father. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in males with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is xeroderma pigmentosum inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is transthyretin amyloidosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Rarely, cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Not all people who have a TTR gene mutation will develop transthyretin amyloidosis.

Question: Is enlarged parietal foramina inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.  However, in rare cases, people who inherit an altered gene do not have enlarged parietal foramina. (This situation is known as reduced penetrance.)

Question: Is benign essential blepharospasm inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of benign essential blepharospasm are sporadic, which means that the condition occurs in people with no history of this disorder or other forms of dystonia in their family.  Less commonly, benign essential blepharospasm has been found to run in families. In some of these families, the condition appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means that one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. However, no causative genes have been identified.

Question: Is tyrosinemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Muckle-Wells syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, the inheritance pattern is unknown.

Question: Is 3MC syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is tyrosine hydroxylase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Treacher Collins syndrome inherited ?
Answer: When Treacher Collins syndrome results from mutations in the TCOF1 or POLR1D gene, it is considered an autosomal dominant condition, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. About 60 percent of these cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In the remaining autosomal dominant cases, a person with Treacher Collins syndrome inherits the altered gene from an affected parent.  When Treacher Collins syndrome is caused by mutations in the POLR1C gene, the condition has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Fabry disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes in each cell. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the GLA gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Because females have two copies of the X chromosome, one altered copy of the gene in each cell usually leads to less severe symptoms in females than in males, or rarely may cause no symptoms at all.  Unlike other X-linked disorders, Fabry disease causes significant medical problems in many females who have one altered copy of the GLA gene. These women may experience many of the classic features of the disorder, including nervous system abnormalities, kidney problems, chronic pain, and fatigue. They also have an increased risk of developing high blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, and kidney failure. The signs and symptoms of Fabry disease usually begin later in life and are milder in females than in their affected male relatives.  A small percentage of females who carry a mutation in one copy of the GLA gene never develop signs and symptoms of Fabry disease.

Question: Is warfarin sensitivity inherited ?
Answer: The polymorphisms associated with this condition are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to result in warfarin sensitivity. However, different polymorphisms affect the activity of warfarin to varying degrees. Additionally, people who have more than one polymorphism in a gene or polymorphisms in multiple genes associated with warfarin sensitivity have a lower tolerance for the drug's effect or take even longer to clear the drug from their body.

Question: Is Apert syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Apert syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Almost all cases of Apert syndrome result from new mutations in the gene, and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Individuals with Apert syndrome, however, can pass along the condition to the next generation.

Question: Is microphthalmia inherited ?
Answer: Isolated microphthalmia is sometimes inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. In some cases, parents of affected individuals have less severe eye abnormalities.  When microphthalmia occurs as a feature of a genetic syndrome or chromosomal abnormality, it may cluster in families according to the inheritance pattern for that condition, which may be autosomal recessive or other patterns.  Often microphthalmia is not inherited, and there is only one affected individual in a family.

Question: Is STING-associated vasculopathy with onset in infancy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, this condition likely results from new (de novo) mutations in the gene that occur during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency is an X-linked disorder. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), mutations in both copies of the gene will cause the disorder. Some females with only one altered copy of the OTC gene also show signs and symptoms of ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency.

Question: Is autosomal recessive congenital stationary night blindness inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is primary ciliary dyskinesia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is maple syrup urine disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is short stature, hyperextensibility, hernia, ocular depression, Rieger anomaly, and teething delay inherited ?
Answer: SHORT syndrome has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered PIK3R1 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, the condition results from a new mutation in the gene and occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In other cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent.

Question: Is Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hypermanganesemia with dystonia, polycythemia, and cirrhosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is gyrate atrophy of the choroid and retina inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is bladder cancer inherited ?
Answer: Bladder cancer is typically not inherited. Most often, tumors result from genetic mutations that occur in bladder cells during a person's lifetime. These noninherited genetic changes are called somatic mutations.

Question: Is carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is sitosterolemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is blepharophimosis, ptosis, and epicanthus inversus syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is typically inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated periodic syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. However, some people who inherit the altered gene never develop features of TRAPS. (This situation is known as reduced penetrance.) It is unclear why some people with a mutated gene develop the disease and other people with the mutated gene do not.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Kawasaki disease inherited ?
Answer: A predisposition to Kawasaki disease appears to be passed through generations in families, but the inheritance pattern is unknown. Children of parents who have had Kawasaki disease have twice the risk of developing the disorder compared to the general population. Children with affected siblings have a tenfold higher risk.

Question: Is familial Mediterranean fever inherited ?
Answer: Familial Mediterranean fever is almost always inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the MEFV gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  In rare cases, this condition appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. An autosomal dominant inheritance pattern describes cases in which one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In autosomal dominant inheritance, affected individuals often inherit the mutation from one affected parent.  However, another mechanism is believed to account for some cases of familial Mediterranean fever that were originally thought to be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. A gene mutation that occurs frequently in a population may result in a disorder with autosomal recessive inheritance appearing in multiple generations in a family, a pattern that mimics autosomal dominant inheritance. If one parent has familial Mediterranean fever (with mutations in both copies of the MEFV gene in each cell) and the other parent is an unaffected carrier (with a mutation in one copy of the MEFV gene in each cell), it may appear as if the affected child inherited the disorder only from the affected parent. This appearance of autosomal dominant inheritance when the pattern is actually autosomal recessive is called pseudodominance.

Question: Is ataxia with vitamin E deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is achromatopsia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is epidermolysis bullosa with pyloric atresia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Warsaw breakage syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Carpenter syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Potocki-Shaffer syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Potocki-Shaffer syndrome follows an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, which means a deletion of genetic material from one copy of chromosome 11 is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the chromosome with a deleted segment from an affected parent. More commonly, the condition results from a deletion that occurs during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) in a parent or in early fetal development. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is osteogenesis imperfecta inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of osteogenesis imperfecta have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Many people with type I or type IV osteogenesis imperfecta inherit a mutation from a parent who has the disorder. Most infants with more severe forms of osteogenesis imperfecta (such as type II and type III) have no history of the condition in their family. In these infants, the condition is caused by new (sporadic) mutations in the COL1A1 or COL1A2 gene.  Less commonly, osteogenesis imperfecta has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means two copies of the gene in each cell are altered. The parents of a child with an autosomal recessive disorder typically are not affected, but each carry one copy of the altered gene. Some cases of osteogenesis imperfecta type III are autosomal recessive; these cases usually result from mutations in genes other than COL1A1 and COL1A2. When osteogenesis imperfecta is caused by mutations in the CRTAP or P3H1 gene, the condition also has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.

Question: Is lung cancer inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of lung cancer are not related to inherited gene changes. These cancers are associated with somatic mutations that occur only in certain cells in the lung.  When lung cancer is related to inherited gene changes, the cancer risk is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase a person's chance of developing cancer. It is important to note that people inherit an increased risk of cancer, not the disease itself. Not all people who inherit mutations in these genes will develop lung cancer.

Question: Is cerebral autosomal recessive arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy inherited ?
Answer: As its name suggests, this condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is galactosialidosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type IE inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.

Question: Is CAV3-related distal myopathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with CAV3-related distal myopathy or another caveolinopathy. Rare cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of caveolinopathies in their family.

Question: Is galactosemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Erdheim-Chester disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is not inherited. It arises from a somatic mutation in histiocytes or their precursor cells during an individual's lifetime.

Question: Is Ohdo syndrome, Maat-Kievit-Brunner type inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The MED12 gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder.  Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. Females with only one altered copy of the gene in each cell are called carriers. They do not usually experience health problems related to the condition, but they can pass the mutation to their children. Sons who inherit the altered gene will have the condition, while daughters who inherit the altered gene will be carriers.  A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is Huntington disease-like syndrome inherited ?
Answer: HDL1, HDL2, and HDL4 are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent.  As the mutation responsible for HDL2 or HDL4 is passed down from one generation to the next, the length of the repeated DNA segment may increase. A longer repeat segment is often associated with more severe signs and symptoms that appear earlier in life. This phenomenon is known as anticipation.  HDL3 is probably inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is lymphangioleiomyomatosis inherited ?
Answer: Sporadic LAM is not inherited. Instead, researchers suggest that it is caused by a random mutation in the TSC1 or TSC2 gene that occurs very early in development. As a result, some of the body's cells have a normal version of the gene, while others have the mutated version. This situation is called mosaicism. When a mutation occurs in the other copy of the TSC1 or TSC2 gene in certain cells during a woman's lifetime (a somatic mutation), she may develop LAM. These women typically have no history of this disorder in their family.

Question: Is VACTERL association inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of VACTERL association are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the condition in their family. Rarely, families have multiple people affected with VACTERL association. A few affected individuals have family members with one or two features, but not enough signs to be diagnosed with the condition. In these families, the features of VACTERL association often do not have a clear pattern of inheritance. Multiple genetic and environmental factors likely play a part in determining the risk of developing this condition and how severe the condition will be in an individual.

Question: Is age-related macular degeneration inherited ?
Answer: Age-related macular degeneration usually does not have a clear-cut pattern of inheritance, although the condition appears to run in families in some cases. An estimated 15 to 20 percent of people with age-related macular degeneration have at least one first-degree relative (such as a sibling) with the condition.

Question: Is propionic acidemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is early-onset primary dystonia inherited ?
Answer: Mutations in the TOR1A gene are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one of the two copies of the gene is altered in each cell. Many people who have a mutation in this gene are not affected by the disorder and may never know they have the mutation. Only 30 to 40 percent of people who inherit a TOR1A mutation will ever develop signs and symptoms of early-onset primary dystonia.  Everyone who has been diagnosed with early-onset primary dystonia has inherited a TOR1A mutation from one parent. The parent may or may not have signs and symptoms of the condition, and other family members may or may not be affected.

Question: Is epidermolysis bullosa simplex inherited ?
Answer: Epidermolysis bullosa simplex is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Some affected people inherit the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  In rare cases, epidermolysis bullosa simplex is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Autosomal recessive inheritance means the condition results when two copies of the gene in each cell are altered. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive disorder typically each carry one copy of the altered gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the disorder.

Question: Is fatty acid hydroxylase-associated neurodegeneration inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is ulcerative colitis inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of ulcerative colitis is unknown because many genetic and environmental factors are likely to be involved. Even though the inheritance pattern of this condition is unclear, having a family member with ulcerative colitis increases the risk of developing the condition.

Question: Is hereditary pancreatitis inherited ?
Answer: When hereditary pancreatitis is caused by mutations in the PRSS1 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the PRSS1 gene mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  It is estimated that 20 percent of people who have the altered PRSS1 gene never have an episode of pancreatitis. (This situation is known as reduced penetrance.) It is unclear why some people with a mutated gene never develop signs and symptoms of the disease.

Question: Is alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal codominant pattern. Codominance means that two different versions of the gene may be active (expressed), and both versions contribute to the genetic trait.  The most common version (allele) of the SERPINA1 gene, called M, produces normal levels of alpha-1 antitrypsin. Most people in the general population have two copies of the M allele (MM) in each cell. Other versions of the SERPINA1 gene lead to reduced levels of alpha-1 antitrypsin. For example, the S allele produces moderately low levels of this protein, and the Z allele produces very little alpha-1 antitrypsin. Individuals with two copies of the Z allele (ZZ) in each cell are likely to have alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency. Those with the SZ combination have an increased risk of developing lung diseases (such as emphysema), particularly if they smoke.  Worldwide, it is estimated that 161 million people have one copy of the S or Z allele and one copy of the M allele in each cell (MS or MZ). Individuals with an MS (or SS) combination usually produce enough alpha-1 antitrypsin to protect the lungs. People with MZ alleles, however, have a slightly increased risk of impaired lung or liver function.

Question: Is spastic paraplegia type 4 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. The remaining cases may result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Marinesco-Sjgren syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation must be present in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one mutated copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. She can pass on the altered gene, but usually does not experience signs and symptoms of the disorder. In rare cases, however, females who carry a NR0B1 mutation may experience adrenal insufficiency or signs of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism such as underdeveloped reproductive tissues, delayed puberty, and an absence of menstruation.

Question: Is prothrombin deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is mucopolysaccharidosis type IV inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is otopalatodigital syndrome type 2 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. In most cases, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is sialic acid storage disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is familial dilated cardiomyopathy inherited ?
Answer: Familial dilated cardiomyopathy has different inheritance patterns depending on the gene involved.  In 80 to 90 percent of cases, familial dilated cardiomyopathy is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. However, some people who inherit the altered gene never develop features of familial dilated cardiomyopathy. (This situation is known as reduced penetrance.) Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  In rare instances, this condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  In other rare cases, this condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. In these cases, the gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell increases the risk of developing heart disease, but females with such a mutation may not develop familial dilated cardiomyopathy. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes familial dilated cardiomyopathy. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is retinal arterial macroaneurysm with supravalvular pulmonic stenosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is oral-facial-digital syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Oral-facial-digital syndrome type I is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Some cells produce a normal amount of OFD1 protein and other cells produce none. The resulting overall reduction in the amount of this protein leads to the signs and symptoms of oral-facial-digital syndrome type I.  In males (who have only one X chromosome), mutations result in a total loss of the OFD1 protein. A lack of this protein is usually lethal very early in development, so very few males are born with oral-facial-digital syndrome type I. Affected males usually die before birth, although a few have lived into early infancy.  Most of the other forms of oral-facial-digital syndrome are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which suggests that both copies of a causative gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is congenital hemidysplasia with ichthyosiform erythroderma and limb defects inherited ?
Answer: This condition has an X-linked dominant pattern of inheritance. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. The inheritance is dominant if one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition.  Most cases of CHILD syndrome occur sporadically, which means only one member of a family is affected. Rarely, the condition can run in families and is passed from mother to daughter. Researchers believe that CHILD syndrome occurs almost exclusively in females because affected males die before birth. Only one male with CHILD syndrome has been reported.

Question: Is hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is mitochondrial membrane protein-associated neurodegeneration inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is T-cell immunodeficiency, congenital alopecia, and nail dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. However, some people who carry one copy of a mutated FOXN1 gene have abnormal fingernails or toenails.

Question: Is Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is X-linked sideroblastic anemia and ataxia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one altered copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. Carriers of an ABCB7 mutation can pass on the mutated gene but do not develop ataxia or other health problems associated with X-linked sideroblastic anemia and ataxia. However, carriers may have abnormally small, pale red blood cells and related changes that can be detected with a blood test.

Question: Is pulmonary arterial hypertension inherited ?
Answer: Pulmonary arterial hypertension is usually sporadic, which means it occurs in individuals with no known family history of the disorder. These non-familial cases are described as idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension. About 20 percent of these cases are caused by mutations in one of the genes known to be associated with the disease, but most of the time a causative gene mutation has not been identified.  Inherited cases of this disorder are known as familial pulmonary arterial hypertension. When the condition is inherited, it most often has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. However, many people with an altered gene never develop pulmonary arterial hypertension; this phenomenon is called reduced penetrance.

Question: Is systemic scleroderma inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of systemic scleroderma are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the condition in their family. However, some people with systemic scleroderma have close relatives with other autoimmune disorders.  A small percentage of all cases of systemic scleroderma have been reported to run in families; however, the condition does not have a clear pattern of inheritance. Multiple genetic and environmental factors likely play a part in determining the risk of developing this condition. As a result, inheriting a genetic variation linked with systemic scleroderma does not mean that a person will develop the condition.

Question: Is Denys-Drash syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is congenital insensitivity to pain inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in a mitochondrial pattern, which is also known as maternal inheritance. This pattern of inheritance applies to genes contained in mtDNA. Because egg cells, but not sperm cells, contribute mitochondria to the developing embryo, children can only inherit disorders resulting from mtDNA mutations from their mother. These disorders can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females, but fathers do not pass traits associated with changes in mtDNA to their children.  In most cases, people with MELAS inherit an altered mitochondrial gene from their mother. Less commonly, the disorder results from a new mutation in a mitochondrial gene and occurs in people with no family history of MELAS.

Question: Is TK2-related mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome, myopathic form inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Brooke-Spiegler syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Susceptibility to Brooke-Spiegler syndrome has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell increases the risk of developing this condition. However, a second, non-inherited mutation is required for development of skin appendage tumors in this disorder.

Question: Is late-infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is ataxia neuropathy spectrum inherited ?
Answer: Ataxia neuropathy spectrum can have different inheritance patterns depending on the associated gene.  Mutations in the POLG gene cause a form of the condition that is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Mutations in the C10orf2 gene cause a form of the condition that is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is pilomatricoma inherited ?
Answer: Most people with isolated pilomatricoma do not have any other affected family members. However, rare families with multiple affected members have been reported. In these cases, the inheritance pattern of the condition (if any) is unknown.

Question: Is Tietz syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.

Question: Is Alexander disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  Most cases result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Rarely, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent.

Question: Is Turner syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Turner syndrome are not inherited. When this condition results from monosomy X, the chromosomal abnormality occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) in the affected person's parent. An error in cell division called nondisjunction can result in reproductive cells with an abnormal number of chromosomes. For example, an egg or sperm cell may lose a sex chromosome as a result of nondisjunction. If one of these atypical reproductive cells contributes to the genetic makeup of a child, the child will have a single X chromosome in each cell and will be missing the other sex chromosome.  Mosaic Turner syndrome is also not inherited. In an affected individual, it occurs as a random event during cell division in early fetal development. As a result, some of an affected person's cells have the usual two sex chromosomes, and other cells have only one copy of the X chromosome. Other sex chromosome abnormalities are also possible in females with X chromosome mosaicism.  Rarely, Turner syndrome caused by a partial deletion of the X chromosome can be passed from one generation to the next.

Question: Is auriculo-condylar syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is typically sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Some people who have one altered copy of the GNAI3 or PLCB4 gene have no features related to auriculo-condylar syndrome. (This situation is known as reduced penetrance.) It is unclear why some people with a mutated gene develop the condition and other people with a mutated gene do not.

Question: Is cold-induced sweating syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Cold-induced sweating syndrome is inherited in anautosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the CRLF1 or CLCF1 gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Chanarin-Dorfman syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is mitochondrial complex III deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Mitochondrial complex III deficiency is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  In some cases caused by mutations in the MT-CYB gene, the condition is not inherited; it is caused by new mutations in the gene that occur in people with no history of the condition in their family. Other cases caused by mutations in the MT-CYB gene are inherited in a mitochondrial pattern, which is also known as maternal inheritance. This pattern of inheritance applies to genes contained in mtDNA. Because egg cells, but not sperm cells, contribute mitochondria to the developing embryo, children can only inherit disorders resulting from mtDNA mutations from their mother. These disorders can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females, but fathers do not pass traits associated with changes in mtDNA to their children.

Question: Is malignant migrating partial seizures of infancy inherited ?
Answer: MMPSI is not inherited from a parent and does not run in families. This condition is caused by a new mutation that occurs very early in embryonic development (called a de novo mutation).

Question: Is Lujan syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is systemic lupus erythematosus inherited ?
Answer: SLE and other autoimmune disorders tend to run in families, but the inheritance pattern is usually unknown. People may inherit a gene variation that increases or decreases the risk of SLE, but in most cases do not inherit the condition itself. Not all people with SLE have a gene variation that increases the risk, and not all people with such a gene variation will develop the disorder.  In rare cases, SLE can be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is SADDAN inherited ?
Answer: SADDAN is considered an autosomal dominant disorder because one mutated copy of the FGFR3 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. The few described cases of SADDAN have been caused by new mutations in the FGFR3 gene and occurred in people with no history of the disorder in their family. No individuals with this disorder are known to have had children; therefore, the disorder has not been passed to the next generation.

Question: Is familial cold autoinflammatory syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern from an affected parent; one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is congenital hypothyroidism inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of congenital hypothyroidism are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  When inherited, the condition usually has an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Typically, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  When congenital hypothyroidism results from mutations in the PAX8 gene or from certain mutations in the TSHR or DUOX2 gene, the condition has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some of these cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene that occur during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is considered to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is surfactant dysfunction inherited ?
Answer: Surfactant dysfunction can have different inheritance patterns depending on its genetic cause.  When caused by mutations in the SFTPB or ABCA3 gene, this condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  When caused by mutations in the SFTPC gene, this condition has an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In about half of cases caused by changes in the SFTPC gene, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. The remainder result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent epilepsy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Andersen-Tawil syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, a person with Andersen-Tawil syndrome inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the KCNJ2 gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Manitoba oculotrichoanal syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is isolated ectopia lentis inherited ?
Answer: When isolated ectopia lentis is caused by mutations in the FBN1 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  When isolated ectopia lentis is caused by mutations in the ADAMTSL4 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is tuberous sclerosis complex inherited ?
Answer: Tuberous sclerosis complex has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of developing tumors and other problems with development. In about one-third of cases, an affected person inherits an altered TSC1 or TSC2 gene from a parent who has the disorder. The remaining two-thirds of people with tuberous sclerosis complex are born with new mutations in the TSC1 or TSC2 gene. These cases, which are described as sporadic, occur in people with no history of tuberous sclerosis complex in their family. TSC1 mutations appear to be more common in familial cases of tuberous sclerosis complex, while mutations in the TSC2 gene occur more frequently in sporadic cases.

Question: Is factor V Leiden thrombophilia inherited ?
Answer: The chance of developing an abnormal blood clot depends on whether a person has one or two copies of the factor V Leiden mutation in each cell. People who inherit two copies of the mutation, one from each parent, have a higher risk of developing a clot than people who inherit one copy of the mutation. Considering that about 1 in 1,000 people per year in the general population will develop an abnormal blood clot, the presence of one copy of the factor V Leiden mutation increases that risk to 3 to 8 in 1,000, and having two copies of the mutation may raise the risk to as high as 80 in 1,000.

Question: Is chronic granulomatous disease inherited ?
Answer: When chronic granulomatous disease is caused by mutations in the CYBB gene, the condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The CYBB gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons. Rarely, females with one altered copy of the CYBB gene have mild symptoms of chronic granulomatous disease, such as an increased frequency of bacterial or fungal infections.  When chronic granulomatous disease is caused by CYBA, NCF1, NCF2, or NCF4 gene mutations, the condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Men and women are affected by autosomal recessive conditions equally.

Question: Is osteoporosis-pseudoglioma syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Osteoporosis-pseudoglioma syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the LRP5 gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. However, some carriers may have decreased bone mineral density.

Question: Is 15q24 microdeletion inherited ?
Answer: The identified cases of 15q24 microdeletion have occurred in people with no history of the condition in their family. The chromosomal change likely occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development.

Question: Is branchio-oculo-facial syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Branchio-oculo-facial syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In about half of cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. The remaining cases occur in people whose parents do not have a mutation in the TFAP2A gene. In these situations, the mutation likely occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) in a parent or in early fetal development of the affected individual.

Question: Is Pallister-Hall syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits a mutation in the GLI3 gene from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles inherited ?
Answer: The different types of congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles have different patterns of inheritance. CFEOM1 and CFEOM3 are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  CFEOM2 is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Tukel syndrome also appears to have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, although the genetic change responsible for this disorder is unknown.

Question: Is X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation typically must occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked recessive inheritance, females with one altered copy of the gene in each cell are called carriers. They can pass on the gene to their children, but they usually do not experience signs and symptoms of the disorder. However, a few females carrying one altered copy of the TAF1 gene have developed movement abnormalities associated with X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism. These movement problems tend to be milder than those seen in affected men, and they are usually not progressive or disabling.

Question: Is osteopetrosis inherited ?
Answer: Osteopetrosis can have several different patterns of inheritance. Most commonly, the disorder has an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most people with autosomal dominant osteopetrosis inherit the condition from an affected parent.  Osteopetrosis can also be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  OL-EDA-ID is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The IKBKG gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is 21-hydroxylase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is multiple system atrophy inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of multiple system atrophy are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Rarely, the condition has been reported to run in families; however, it does not have a clear pattern of inheritance.

Question: Is complement component 2 deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Darier disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases may result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  The linear form of Darier disease is generally not inherited but arises from mutations in the body's cells that occur after conception. These alterations are called somatic mutations.

Question: Is hereditary myopathy with early respiratory failure inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is cyclic vomiting syndrome inherited ?
Answer: In most cases of cyclic vomiting syndrome, affected people have no known history of the disorder in their family. However, many affected individuals have a family history of related conditions, such as migraines, irritable bowel syndrome, or depression, in their mothers and other maternal relatives. This family history suggests an inheritance pattern known as maternal inheritance or mitochondrial inheritance, which applies to genes contained in mtDNA. Because egg cells, but not sperm cells, contribute mitochondria to the developing embryo, children can only inherit disorders resulting from mtDNA mutations from their mother. These disorders can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females, but fathers do not pass traits associated with changes in mtDNA to their children.  Occasionally, people with cyclic vomiting syndrome have a family history of the disorder that does not follow maternal inheritance. In these cases, the inheritance pattern is unknown.

Question: Is congenital dyserythropoietic anemia inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of CDA depends on the type of the disorder. CDA types I and II are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the associated gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  In several families, CDA type III appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In these families, affected individuals often have a parent and other relatives with the condition.

Question: Is MyD88 deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is metachromatic leukodystrophy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Kleefstra syndrome inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance of Kleefstra syndrome is considered to be autosomal dominant because a deletion in one copy of chromosome 9 in each cell or a mutation in one copy of the EHMT1 gene is sufficient to cause the condition. Most cases of Kleefstra syndrome are not inherited, however. The genetic change occurs most often as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family, though they can pass the disorder on to their children. Only a few people with Kleefstra syndrome have been known to reproduce.  Rarely, affected individuals inherit a chromosome 9 with a deleted segment from an unaffected parent. In these cases, the parent carries a chromosomal rearrangement called a balanced translocation, in which no genetic material is gained or lost. Balanced translocations usually do not cause any health problems; however, they can become unbalanced as they are passed to the next generation. Children who inherit an unbalanced translocation can have a chromosomal rearrangement with extra or missing genetic material. Individuals with Kleefstra syndrome who inherit an unbalanced translocation are missing genetic material from the long arm of chromosome 9.  A few individuals with Kleefstra syndrome have inherited the chromosome 9q34.3 deletion from an unaffected parent who is mosaic for the deletion. Mosaic means that an individual has the deletion in some cells (including some sperm or egg cells), but not in others.

Question: Is Weill-Marchesani syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Weill-Marchesani syndrome can be inherited in either an autosomal recessive or an autosomal dominant pattern.  When Weill-Marchesani syndrome is caused by mutations in the ADAMTS10 gene, it has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Other cases of Weill-Marchesani syndrome, including those caused by mutations in the FBN1 gene, have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the genetic change from one parent with the condition.

Question: Is hypochondroplasia inherited ?
Answer: Hypochondroplasia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most people with hypochondroplasia have average-size parents; these cases result from a new mutation in the FGFR3 gene. In the remaining cases, people with hypochondroplasia have inherited an altered FGFR3 gene from one or two affected parents. Individuals who inherit two altered copies of this gene typically have more severe problems with bone growth than those who inherit a single FGFR3 mutation.

Question: Is Noonan syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is cleidocranial dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases may result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is fragile X-associated primary ovarian insufficiency inherited ?
Answer: An increased risk of developing FXPOI is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The FMR1 gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. (The Y chromosome is the other sex chromosome.) The inheritance is dominant because one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to elevate the risk of developing FXPOI. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of a gene in each cell can lead to the disorder. However, not all women who inherit an FMR1 premutation will develop FXPOI. Because males do not have ovaries, they are unaffected.

Question: Is critical congenital heart disease inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of CCHD are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. However, close relatives (such as siblings) of people with CCHD may have an increased risk of being born with a heart defect compared with people in the general population.

Question: Is glycogen storage disease type VII inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is mucopolysaccharidosis type VII inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is task-specific focal dystonia inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of task-specific focal dystonia are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the condition in their family. However, at least 10 percent of affected individuals have a family history of focal dystonia. (For example, writer's cramp and musician's dystonia have been reported to occur in the same family.) The dystonia often appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, based on the observation that some affected people have a parent with the condition.

Question: Is carnitine palmitoyltransferase I deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is protein C deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Protein C deficiency is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one altered copy of the PROC gene in each cell is sufficient to cause mild protein C deficiency. Individuals who inherit two altered copies of this gene in each cell have severe protein C deficiency.

Question: Is X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata 1 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the ARSE gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is warfarin resistance inherited ?
Answer: The polymorphisms associated with this condition are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to result in warfarin resistance. However, different polymorphisms affect the activity of warfarin to varying degrees. Additionally, people who have more than one polymorphism in a gene or polymorphisms in multiple genes associated with warfarin resistance have a higher tolerance for the drug's effect or are able to process the drug more quickly.

Question: Is Feingold syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is hypercholesterolemia inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of high cholesterol are not caused by a single inherited condition, but result from a combination of lifestyle choices and the effects of variations in many genes.  Inherited forms of hypercholesterolemia resulting from mutations in the LDLR, APOB, or PCSK9 gene have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. An affected person typically inherits one altered copy of the gene from an affected parent and one normal copy of the gene from the other parent.  Rarely, a person with familial hypercholesterolemia is born with two mutated copies of the LDLR gene. This situation occurs when the person has two affected parents, each of whom passes on one altered copy of the gene. The presence of two LDLR mutations results in a more severe form of hypercholesterolemia that usually appears in childhood.  When hypercholesterolemia is caused by mutations in the LDLRAP1 gene, the condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Autosomal recessive inheritance means the condition results from two altered copies of the gene in each cell. The parents of an individual with autosomal recessive hypercholesterolemia each carry one copy of the altered gene, but their blood cholesterol levels are usually in the normal range.

Question: Is mucopolysaccharidosis type III inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is GLUT1 deficiency syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. About 90 percent of cases of GLUT1 deficiency syndrome result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In other cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent.  In a small number of families, GLUT1 deficiency syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Opitz G/BBB syndrome inherited ?
Answer: When caused by mutations in the MID1 gene, Opitz G/BBB syndrome has an X-linked pattern of inheritance. It is considered X-linked because the MID1 gene is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes in each cell. In males, who have only one X chromosome, a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females, who have two copies of the X chromosome, one altered copy of the gene in each cell can lead to less severe features of the condition or may cause no symptoms at all. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of the MID1 gene, females with X-linked Opitz G/BBB syndrome typically have hypertelorism as the only sign of the disorder. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  Rarely, Opitz G/BBB syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. These cases are caused by a mutation in the SPECC1L gene or by a deletion of genetic material from one copy of chromosome 22 in each cell. Males and females with autosomal dominant Opitz G/BBB syndrome usually have the same severity of symptoms.  In both types of Opitz G/BBB syndrome, some affected people inherit the genetic change from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new mutations. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Stickler syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Stickler syndrome types I, II, and III are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits a gene mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations. These cases occur in people with no history of Stickler syndrome in their family.  Marshall syndrome also typically has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.  Stickler syndrome types IV, V, and VI are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is mucolipidosis III alpha/beta inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Hashimoto thyroiditis inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of Hashimoto thyroiditis is unclear because many genetic and environmental factors appear to be involved. However, the condition can cluster in families, and having a close relative with Hashimoto thyroiditis or another autoimmune disorder likely increases a person's risk of developing the condition.

Question: Is Cornelia de Lange syndrome inherited ?
Answer: When Cornelia de Lange syndrome is caused by mutations in the NIPBL, RAD21, or SMC3 gene, the condition is considered to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new gene mutations and occur in people with no history of the condition in their family.  When Cornelia de Lange syndrome is caused by mutations in the HDAC8 or SMC1A gene, the condition has an X-linked dominant pattern of inheritance. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. Studies of X-linked Cornelia de Lange syndrome indicate that one copy of the altered gene in each cell may be sufficient to cause the condition. Unlike X-linked recessive conditions, in which males are more frequently affected or experience more severe symptoms than females, X-linked dominant Cornelia de Lange syndrome appears to affect males and females similarly. Most cases result from new mutations in the HDAC8 or SMC1A gene and occur in people with no history of the condition in their family.

Question: Is 2-methylbutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Kearns-Sayre syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is generally not inherited but arises from mutations in the body's cells that occur after conception. This alteration is called a somatic mutation and is present only in certain cells.  Rarely, this condition is inherited in a mitochondrial pattern, which is also known as maternal inheritance. This pattern of inheritance applies to genes contained in mtDNA. Because egg cells, but not sperm cells, contribute mitochondria to the developing embryo, children can only inherit disorders resulting from mtDNA mutations from their mother. These disorders can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females, but fathers do not pass traits associated with changes in mtDNA to their children.

Question: Is megalencephaly-capillary malformation syndrome inherited ?
Answer: MCAP is not inherited from a parent and does not run in families. In people with MCAP, a PIK3CA gene mutation arises randomly in one cell during the early stages of development before birth. As cells continue to divide, some cells will have the mutation and other cells will not. This mixture of cells with and without a genetic mutation is known as mosaicism.

Question: Is lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia inherited ?
Answer: When LCH is caused by mutations in the RELN gene, the condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  When LCH is caused by mutations in the TUBA1A gene, the condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most of these cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is monilethrix inherited ?
Answer: Monilethrix can have multiple patterns of inheritance. When the condition is caused by a mutation in one of the keratin genes, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In rare cases, the condition results from a new mutation in the gene and is not inherited.  When the condition is caused by mutations in the DSG4 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Bloom syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is myostatin-related muscle hypertrophy inherited ?
Answer: Myostatin-related muscle hypertrophy has a pattern of inheritance known as incomplete autosomal dominance. People with a mutation in both copies of the MSTN gene in each cell (homozygotes) have significantly increased muscle mass and strength. People with a mutation in one copy of the MSTN gene in each cell (heterozygotes) also have increased muscle bulk, but to a lesser degree.

Question: Is autosomal dominant hyper-IgE syndrome inherited ?
Answer: AD-HIES has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In about half of all cases caused by STAT3 gene mutations, an affected person inherits the genetic change from an affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in this gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Cohen syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Leber hereditary optic neuropathy inherited ?
Answer: LHON has a mitochondrial pattern of inheritance, which is also known as maternal inheritance. This pattern of inheritance applies to genes contained in mtDNA. Because egg cells, but not sperm cells, contribute mitochondria to the developing embryo, children can only inherit disorders resulting from mtDNA mutations from their mother. These disorders can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females, but fathers do not pass traits associated with changes in mtDNA to their children.  Often, people who develop the features of LHON have no family history of the condition. Because a person may carry an mtDNA mutation without experiencing any signs or symptoms, it is hard to predict which members of a family who carry a mutation will eventually develop vision loss or other problems associated with LHON. It is important to note that all females with an mtDNA mutation, even those who do not have any signs or symptoms, will pass the genetic change to their children.

Question: Is nemaline myopathy inherited ?
Answer: Nemaline myopathy is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Less often, this condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Dubin-Johnson syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is 46,XX testicular disorder of sex development inherited ?
Answer: SRY-positive 46,XX testicular disorder of sex development is almost never inherited. This condition results from the translocation of a Y chromosome segment containing the SRY gene during the formation of sperm (spermatogenesis). Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family and cannot pass on the disorder because they are infertile.  In rare cases, the SRY gene may be misplaced onto a chromosome other than the X chromosome. This translocation may be carried by an unaffected father and passed on to a child with two X chromosomes, resulting in 46,XX testicular disorder of sex development. In another very rare situation, a man may carry the SRY gene on both the X and Y chromosome; a child who inherits his X chromosome will develop male sex characteristics despite having no Y chromosome.  The inheritance pattern of SRY-negative 46,XX testicular disorder of sex development is unknown. A few families with unaffected parents have had more than one child with the condition, suggesting the possibility of autosomal recessive inheritance. Autosomal recessive means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is moyamoya disease inherited ?
Answer: Up to 15 percent of Japanese people with moyamoya disease have one or more family members with the condition, indicating that the condition can be passed through generations in families; however, the inheritance pattern is unknown. Research suggests that the condition follows an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. However, some people who have a copy of the altered gene never develop the condition, which is a situation known as reduced penetrance.

Question: Is vitelliform macular dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: Best disease is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.  The inheritance pattern of adult-onset vitelliform macular dystrophy is uncertain. Some studies have suggested that this disorder may be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. It is difficult to be sure, however, because many affected people have no history of the disorder in their family, and only a small number of affected families have been reported.

Question: Is methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria inherited ?
Answer: Methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  When caused by mutations in the HCFC1 gene, the condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The HCFC1 gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is 2q37 deletion syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of 2q37 deletion syndrome are not inherited. They result from a chromosomal deletion that occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family.  Rarely, affected individuals inherit a copy of chromosome 2 with a deleted segment from an unaffected parent. In these cases, one of the parents carries a chromosomal rearrangement between chromosome 2 and another chromosome. This rearrangement is called a balanced translocation. No genetic material is gained or lost in a balanced translocation, so these chromosomal changes usually do not cause any health problems. However, translocations can become unbalanced as they are passed to the next generation. Children who inherit an unbalanced translocation can have a chromosomal rearrangement with extra or missing genetic material. Some individuals with 2q37 deletion syndrome inherit an unbalanced translocation that deletes genetic material near the end of the long arm of chromosome 2, which results in birth defects and other health problems characteristic of this disorder.

Question: Is congenital mirror movement disorder inherited ?
Answer: In most cases, including those caused by mutations in the DCC or RAD51 gene, this condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the altered gene. Some people who have the altered gene never develop the condition, a situation known as reduced penetrance.  Research suggests that in rare cases, this condition may be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Duane-radial ray syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered SALL4 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In many cases, an affected person inherits a mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is prion disease inherited ?
Answer: Familial forms of prion disease are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered PRNP gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the altered gene from one affected parent. In some people, familial forms of prion disease are caused by a new mutation in the gene that occurs during the formation of a parent's reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. Although such people do not have an affected parent, they can pass the genetic change to their children.  The sporadic, acquired, and iatrogenic forms of prion disease, including kuru and variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, are not inherited.

Question: Is X-linked myotubular myopathy inherited ?
Answer: X-linked myotubular myopathy is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation must be present in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked myotubular myopathy, the affected male inherits one altered copy from his mother in 80 to 90 percent of cases. In the remaining 10 to 20 percent of cases, the disorder results from a new mutation in the gene that occurs during the formation of a parent's reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. Females with one altered copy of the MTM1 gene generally do not experience signs and symptoms of the disorder. In rare cases, however, females who have one altered copy of the MTM1 gene experience some mild muscle weakness.

Question: Is hyperphosphatemic familial tumoral calcinosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is frontometaphyseal dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. In most cases, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is Mabry syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is harlequin ichthyosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is boomerang dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Almost all cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is spinal muscular atrophy inherited ?
Answer: Types I, II, III, and IV spinal muscular atrophy are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the SMN1 gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Extra copies of the SMN2 gene are due to a random error when making new copies of DNA (replication) in an egg or sperm cell or just after fertilization.  SMA-LED and the late-onset form of spinal muscular atrophy caused by VAPB gene mutations are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  X-linked spinal muscular atrophy is inherited in an X-linked pattern. The UBA1 gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is ankyloblepharon-ectodermal defects-cleft lip/palate syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell may or may not cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. In most cases of X-linked inheritance, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is short QT syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Short QT syndrome appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Some affected individuals have a family history of short QT syndrome or related heart problems and sudden cardiac death. Other cases of short QT syndrome are classified as sporadic and occur in people with no apparent family history of related heart problems.

Question: Is spinal muscular atrophy with respiratory distress type 1 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is pseudocholinesterase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: When due to genetic causes, this condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive disorder have one copy of the altered gene in each cell and are called carriers. They can pass on the gene mutation to their children, but they do not usually experience signs and symptoms of the disorder. In some cases, carriers of BCHE gene mutations take longer than usual to clear choline ester drugs from the body, but not as long as those with two copies of the altered gene in each cell.

Question: Is Tourette syndrome inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of Tourette syndrome is unclear. Although the features of this condition can cluster in families, many genetic and environmental factors are likely to be involved. Among family members of an affected person, it is difficult to predict who else may be at risk of developing the condition.  Tourette syndrome was previously thought to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which suggests that one mutated copy of a gene in each cell would be sufficient to cause the condition. Several decades of research have shown that this is not the case. Almost all cases of Tourette syndrome probably result from a variety of genetic and environmental factors, not changes in a single gene.

Question: Is fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  Most cases of fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In a small number of cases, an affected person has inherited the mutation from one affected parent.

Question: Is adenosine monophosphate deaminase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Snyder-Robinson syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. No cases of Snyder-Robinson syndrome in females have been reported.

Question: Is thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura inherited ?
Answer: The familial form of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  The acquired form of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura is not inherited.

Question: Is autosomal dominant hypocalcemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. A small number of cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is progressive supranuclear palsy inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of progressive supranuclear palsy are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. However, some people with this disorder have had family members with related conditions, such as parkinsonism and a loss of intellectual functions (dementia).  When progressive supranuclear palsy runs in families, it can have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is X-linked infantile nystagmus inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes in each cell. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two copies of the X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell can cause the condition, although affected females may experience less severe symptoms than affected males. Approximately half of the females with only one altered copy of the FRMD7 gene in each cell have no symptoms of this condition.

Question: Is combined malonic and methylmalonic aciduria inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hereditary fructose intolerance inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one altered or missing copy of the GLI3 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits a gene mutation or chromosomal abnormality from one affected parent. Other cases occur in people with no history of the condition in their family.

Question: Is D-bifunctional protein deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is ornithine translocase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is X-linked lymphoproliferative disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is generally inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The genes associated with this condition are located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of an associated gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation usually has to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of an associated gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. However, in rare cases a female carrying one altered copy of the SH2D1A or XIAP gene in each cell may develop signs and symptoms of this condition.

Question: Is metatropic dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: Metatropic dysplasia is considered an autosomal dominant disorder because one mutated copy of the TRPV4 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Most cases of metatropic dysplasia are caused by new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In a few reported cases, an affected person has inherited the condition from an affected parent.  In the past, it was thought that the lethal type of metatropic dysplasia had an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, in which both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. However, more recent research has confirmed that all metatropic dysplasia has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.

Question: Is DOLK-congenital disorder of glycosylation inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Li-Fraumeni syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Li-Fraumeni syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of developing cancer. In most cases, an affected person has a parent and other family members with cancers characteristic of the condition.

Question: Is CASK-related intellectual disability inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes in each cell. In females, who have two copies of the X chromosome, one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In males, who have only one X chromosome, a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the condition. In most cases, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: FSHD1 is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the shortened D4Z4 region on a "permissive" chromosome 4 is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the altered chromosome from one affected parent. Other people with FSHD1 have no history of the disorder in their family. These cases are described as sporadic and are caused by a new (de novo) D4Z4 contraction on one copy of a "permissive" chromosome 4.  FSHD2 is inherited in a digenic pattern, which means that two independent genetic changes are necessary to cause the disorder. To have FSHD2, an individual must inherit a mutation in the SMCHD1 gene (which is located on chromosome 18) and, separately, they must inherit one copy of a "permissive" chromosome 4. Affected individuals typically inherit the SMCHD1 gene mutation from one parent and the "permissive" chromosome 4 from the other parent. (Because neither parent has both genetic changes in most cases, they are typically unaffected.)

Question: Is paramyotonia congenita inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In many cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.

Question: Is Bowen-Conradi syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Paget disease of bone inherited ?
Answer: In 15 to 40 percent of all cases of classic Paget disease of bone, the disorder has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that having one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In the remaining cases, the inheritance pattern of classic Paget disease of bone is unclear. Many affected people have no family history of the disease, although it sometimes clusters in families. Studies suggest that close relatives of people with classic Paget disease of bone are 7 to 10 times more likely to develop the disease than people without an affected relative.  Early-onset Paget disease of bone is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. In people with this form of the disorder, having one altered copy of the TNFRSF11A gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disease.

Question: Is mycosis fungoides inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of mycosis fungoides has not been determined. Although the condition has been found in multiple members of more than a dozen families, it most often occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family and is typically not inherited.

Question: Is distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type V inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  Some people who have the altered gene never develop the condition, a situation known as reduced penetrance.

Question: Is Muenke syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Gitelman syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.  As the altered ATN1 gene is passed from one generation to the next, the size of the CAG trinucleotide repeat often increases in size. Larger repeat expansions are usually associated with an earlier onset of the disorder and more severe signs and symptoms. This phenomenon is called anticipation. Anticipation tends to be more prominent when the ATN1 gene is inherited from a person's father (paternal inheritance) than when it is inherited from a person's mother (maternal inheritance).

Question: Is periventricular heterotopia inherited ?
Answer: Periventricular heterotopia can have different inheritance patterns. When this condition is caused by mutations in the FLNA gene, it is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern.  A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. The inheritance is dominant if one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked periventricular heterotopia, males experience much more severe symptoms of the disorder than females, and in most cases die before birth.  In about 50 percent of cases of X-linked periventricular heterotopia, an affected person inherits the mutation from a mother who is also affected. Other cases may result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Periventricular heterotopia caused by mutations in the ARFGEF2 gene is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Individuals with periventricular heterotopia in whom ARFGEF2 gene mutations have been identified have a severe form of the disorder, including microcephaly, severe developmental delay, and seizures beginning in infancy. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is spastic paraplegia type 3A inherited ?
Answer: Spastic paraplegia type 3A is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In approximately 95 percent of cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent.

Question: Is sickle cell disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy plus syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is distal myopathy 2 inherited ?
Answer: Distal myopathy 2 is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered MATR3 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is adenylosuccinate lyase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is pulmonary alveolar microlithiasis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Wagner syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is aspartylglucosaminuria inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is adenine phosphoribosyltransferase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is FG syndrome inherited ?
Answer: FG syndrome is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The genes likely associated with this disorder, including MED12, are located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation usually must occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of a gene on the X chromosome, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is leukocyte adhesion deficiency type 1 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Menkes syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Menkes syndrome is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In about one-third of cases, Menkes syndrome is caused by new mutations in the ATP7A gene. People with a new mutation do not have a history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is pseudoachondroplasia inherited ?
Answer: Pseudoachondroplasia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is lacrimo-auriculo-dento-digital syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means a mutation in one copy of the FGFR2, FGFR3, or FGF10 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is alternating hemiplegia of childhood inherited ?
Answer: Alternating hemiplegia of childhood is considered an autosomal dominant condition, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases of alternating hemiplegia of childhood result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. However, the condition can also run in families. For unknown reasons, the signs and symptoms are typically milder when the condition is found in multiple family members than when a single individual is affected.

Question: Is progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts inherited ?
Answer: All cases of megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts caused by mutations in the MLC1 gene (type 1) and some cases caused by mutations in the HEPACAM gene (type 2A) are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts type 2B is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered HEPACAM gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases of type 2B result from new (de novo) mutations in the HEPACAM gene that occur during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is trimethylaminuria inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of trimethylaminuria appear to be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Carriers of an FMO3 mutation, however, may have mild symptoms of trimethylaminuria or experience temporary episodes of strong body odor.

Question: Is horizontal gaze palsy with progressive scoliosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is primary macronodular adrenal hyperplasia inherited ?
Answer: People with PMAH caused by ARMC5 gene mutations inherit one copy of the mutated gene in each cell. The inheritance is considered autosomal dominant because one copy of the mutated gene is sufficient to make an individual susceptible to PMAH. However, the condition develops only when affected individuals acquire another mutation in the other copy of the ARMC5 gene in certain cells of the adrenal glands. This second mutation is described as somatic. Instead of being passed from parent to child, somatic mutations are acquired during a person's lifetime and are present only in certain cells. Because somatic mutations are also required for PMAH to occur, some people who have inherited the altered ARMC5 gene never develop the condition, a situation known as reduced penetrance.  When PMAH is caused by GNAS gene mutations, the condition is not inherited. The GNAS gene mutations that cause PMAH are somatic mutations. In PMAH, the gene mutation is believed to occur early in embryonic development. Cells with the mutated GNAS gene can be found in both adrenal glands.

Question: Is Baller-Gerold syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Usher syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hereditary angioedema inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Proteus syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Because Proteus syndrome is caused by AKT1 gene mutations that occur during early development, the disorder is not inherited and does not run in families.

Question: Is cytochrome c oxidase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Cytochrome c oxidase deficiency can have different inheritance patterns depending on the gene involved.  When this condition is caused by mutations in genes within nuclear DNA, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  When this condition is caused by mutations in genes within mtDNA, it is inherited in a mitochondrial pattern, which is also known as maternal inheritance. This pattern of inheritance applies to genes contained in mtDNA. Because egg cells, but not sperm cells, contribute mitochondria to the developing embryo, children can only inherit disorders resulting from mtDNA mutations from their mother. These disorders can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females, but fathers do not pass traits associated with changes in mtDNA to their children.

Question: Is X-linked hyper IgM syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is autosomal recessive primary microcephaly inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. People with autosomal dominant oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy have a mutation resulting in a PABPN1 protein with an expanded polyalanine tract of between 12 and 17 alanines.  Less commonly, oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy can be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. In autosomal recessive oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy, PABPN1 mutations lead to a polyalanine tract that is 11 alanines long. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is von Willebrand disease inherited ?
Answer: Von Willebrand disease can have different inheritance patterns.  Most cases of type 1 and type 2 von Willebrand disease are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  Type 3, some cases of type 2, and a small number of type 1 cases of von Willebrand disease are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome is described as autosomal dominant, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. The condition almost always results from new (de novo) gene mutations and occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Very rarely, people with Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome have inherited the altered gene from an unaffected parent who has a gene mutation only in their sperm or egg cells. When a mutation is present only in reproductive cells, it is known as germline mosaicism.

Question: Is glutamate formiminotransferase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Northern epilepsy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Miller syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Ehlers-Danlos syndrome inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome varies by type. The arthrochalasia, classical, hypermobility, and vascular forms of the disorder have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new (sporadic) gene mutations and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  The dermatosparaxis and kyphoscoliosis types of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, as well as some of the rare, less well-characterized types of the disorder, are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. In autosomal recessive inheritance, two copies of the gene in each cell are altered. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive disorder are carriers of one copy of the altered gene but do not show signs and symptoms of the disorder.

Question: Is Werner syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Werner syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the WRN gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with Werner syndrome each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is X-linked infantile spasm syndrome inherited ?
Answer: X-linked infantile spasm syndrome can have different inheritance patterns depending on the genetic cause.  When caused by mutations in the ARX gene, this condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The ARX gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Usually in females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. However, in some instances, one altered copy of the ARX gene is sufficient because the X chromosome with the normal copy of the ARX gene is turned off through a process called X-inactivation. Early in embryonic development in females, one of the two X chromosomes is permanently inactivated in somatic cells (cells other than egg and sperm cells). X-inactivation ensures that females, like males, have only one active copy of the X chromosome in each body cell. Usually X-inactivation occurs randomly, such that each X chromosome is active in about half of the body cells. Sometimes X-inactivation is not random, and one X chromosome is active in more than half of cells. When X-inactivation does not occur randomly, it is called skewed X-inactivation. Some ARX gene mutations may be associated with skewed X-inactivation, which results in the inactivation of the X chromosome with the normal copy of the ARX gene in most cells of the body. This skewed X-inactivation causes the chromosome with the mutated ARX gene to be expressed in more than half of cells, causing X-linked infantile spasm syndrome.  When caused by mutations in the CDKL5 gene, this condition is thought to have an X-linked dominant inheritance pattern. The CDKL5 gene is also located on the X chromosome, making this condition X-linked. The inheritance is dominant because one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition in both males and females.  X-linked infantile spasm syndrome caused by CDKL5 gene mutations usually occurs in individuals with no history of the disorder in their family. These mutations likely occur in early embryonic development (called de novo mutations). Because males have only one X chromosome, X-linked dominant disorders are often more severe in males than in females. Male fetuses with CDKL5-related X-linked infantile spasm syndrome may not survive to birth, so more females are diagnosed with the condition. In females, the distribution of active and inactive X chromosomes due to X-inactivation may affect whether a woman develops the condition or the severity of the signs and symptoms. Generally, the larger the proportion of active X chromosomes that contain the mutated CDKL5 gene, the more severe the signs and symptoms of the condition are.  A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is Knobloch syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis inherited ?
Answer: SJS/TEN is not an inherited condition. However, the genetic changes that increase the risk of developing SJS/TEN can be passed from one generation to the next.

Question: Is benign recurrent intrahepatic cholestasis inherited ?
Answer: Both types of BRIC are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Some people with BRIC have no family history of the disorder. These cases arise from mutations in the ATP8B1 or ABCB11 gene that occur in the body's cells after conception and are not inherited.

Question: Is Wilson disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is beta thalassemia inherited ?
Answer: Thalassemia major and thalassemia intermedia are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the HBB gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Sometimes, however, people with only one HBB gene mutation in each cell develop mild anemia. These mildly affected people are said to have thalassemia minor.  In a small percentage of families, the HBB gene mutation is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. In these cases, one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the signs and symptoms of beta thalassemia.

Question: Is esophageal atresia/tracheoesophageal fistula inherited ?
Answer: When EA/TEF occurs as a feature of a genetic syndrome or chromosomal abnormality, it may cluster in families according to the inheritance pattern for that condition. Often EA/TEF is not inherited, and there is only one affected individual in a family.

Question: Is PDGFRB-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia inherited ?
Answer: PDGFRB-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia is not inherited and occurs in people with no history of the condition in their families. Chromosomal rearrangements that lead to a PDGFRB fusion gene are somatic mutations, which are mutations acquired during a person's lifetime and present only in certain cells. The somatic mutation occurs initially in a single cell, which continues to grow and divide, producing a group of cells with the same mutation (a clonal population).

Question: Is androgen insensitivity syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes in each cell. In genetic males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In genetic females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation must be present in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females.  About two-thirds of all cases of androgen insensitivity syndrome are inherited from mothers who carry an altered copy of the AR gene on one of their two X chromosomes. The remaining cases result from a new mutation that can occur in the mother's egg cell before the child is conceived or during early fetal development.

Question: Is spondyloenchondrodysplasia with immune dysregulation inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is oculodentodigital dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of oculodentodigital dysplasia are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Less commonly, oculodentodigital dysplasia can be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Fewer than ten cases of autosomal recessive oculodentodigital dysplasia have been reported.

Question: Is cone-rod dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: Cone-rod dystrophy is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Less frequently, this condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most of these cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.  Rarely, cone-rod dystrophy is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The genes associated with this form of the condition are located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. Females with one copy of the altered gene have mild vision problems, such as decreased visual acuity. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is multiple endocrine neoplasia inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 are considered to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. People with this condition are born with one mutated copy of the MEN1 gene in each cell. In most cases, the altered gene is inherited from an affected parent. The remaining cases are a result of new mutations in the MEN1 gene, and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Unlike most other autosomal dominant conditions, in which one altered copy of a gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder, two copies of the MEN1 gene must be altered to trigger tumor formation in multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1. A mutation in the second copy of the MEN1 gene occurs in a small number of cells during a person's lifetime. Almost everyone who is born with one MEN1 mutation acquires a second mutation in certain cells, which can then divide in an unregulated way to form tumors.  Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 and type 4 are also inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. In these cases, one copy of the mutated gene is sufficient to cause the disorder. Affected individuals often inherit an altered RET or CDKN1B gene from one parent with the condition. Some cases, however, result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people without other affected family members.

Question: Is isovaleric acidemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is activated PI3K-delta syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is mucopolysaccharidosis type II inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is fish-eye disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is factor V deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Factor V deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the F5 gene in each cell have mutations. Individuals with a mutation in a single copy of the F5 gene have a reduced amount of coagulation factor V in their blood and can have mild bleeding problems, although most have no related health effects.

Question: Is X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata 2 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the EBP gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Some cells produce a normal amount of 3-hydroxysteroid-8,7-isomerase and other cells produce none. The resulting overall reduction in the amount of this enzyme underlies the signs and symptoms of X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata 2.  In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the EBP gene can result in a total loss of 3-hydroxysteroid-8,7-isomerase. A complete lack of this enzyme is usually lethal in the early stages of development, so few males have been born with X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata 2.

Question: Is familial idiopathic basal ganglia calcification inherited ?
Answer: FIBGC is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of an altered SLC20A2 or PDGFRB gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. This condition appears to follow an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance when the genetic cause is not known. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.

Question: Is familial atrial fibrillation inherited ?
Answer: Familial atrial fibrillation appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is isolated growth hormone deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Isolated growth hormone deficiency can have different inheritance patterns depending on the type of the condition.  Isolated growth hormone deficiency types IA and IB are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the GH1 or GHRHR gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Isolated growth hormone deficiency type II can be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means a mutation in one copy of the GH1 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. This condition can also result from new mutations in the GH1 gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Isolated growth hormone deficiency type III, caused by mutations in the BTK gene, is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The BTK gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is Alstrm syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Meige disease inherited ?
Answer: Meige disease appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder, although no genes have been associated with Meige disease.  People with Meige disease usually have at least one other affected family member. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition. When the condition occurs in only one person in a family, the condition is described as Meige-like disease.

Question: Is hand-foot-genital syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Baraitser-Winter syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is described as autosomal dominant, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. The condition almost always results from new (de novo) mutations in the ACTB or ACTG1 gene and occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is methylmalonic acidemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the MUT, MMAA, MMAB, MMADHC, or MCEE gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition are carriers of one copy of the mutated gene but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is congenital hepatic fibrosis inherited ?
Answer: The various syndromes of which congenital hepatic fibrosis is often a feature can have different inheritance patterns. Most of these disorders are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the associated gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Rare syndromes involving congenital hepatic fibrosis may be inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern, in which the gene associated with the syndrome is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes.  In isolated congenital hepatic fibrosis, the inheritance pattern is unknown.

Question: Is 22q11.2 deletion syndrome inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome is considered autosomal dominant because a deletion in one copy of chromosome 22 in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Most cases of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome are not inherited, however. The deletion occurs most often as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family, though they can pass the condition to their children. In about 10 percent of cases, a person with this condition inherits the deletion in chromosome 22 from a parent. In inherited cases, other family members may be affected as well.

Question: Is peroxisomal acyl-CoA oxidase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is 3-M syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is 9q22.3 microdeletion inherited ?
Answer: 9q22.3 microdeletions are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means that missing genetic material from one of the two copies of chromosome 9 in each cell is sufficient to cause delayed development, intellectual disability, and the features of Gorlin syndrome.  A 9q22.3 microdeletion most often occurs in people whose parents do not carry the chromosomal change. In these cases, the deletion occurs as a random (de novo) event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) in a parent or in early embryonic development. De novo chromosomal changes occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Less commonly, individuals with a 9q22.3 microdeletion inherit the chromosomal change from an unaffected parent. In these cases, the parent carries a chromosomal rearrangement called a balanced translocation, in which a segment of chromosome 9 has traded places with a segment of another chromosome. No genetic material is gained or lost in a balanced translocation, so these chromosomal changes usually do not cause any health problems. However, translocations can become unbalanced as they are passed to the next generation. People who inherit a 9q22.3 microdeletion receive an unbalanced translocation that deletes genetic material from one copy of the q22.3 region of chromosome 9 in each cell.  Having one missing copy of the PTCH1 gene in each cell is enough to cause the features of Gorlin syndrome that are present early in life, including macrocephaly and skeletal abnormalities. For basal cell carcinomas and other tumors to develop, a mutation in the other copy of the PTCH1 gene must also occur in certain cells during the person's lifetime. Most people who are born with one missing copy of the PTCH1 gene eventually acquire a mutation in the other copy of the gene in some cells and consequently develop various types of tumors.

Question: Is collagen VI-related myopathy inherited ?
Answer: Collagen VI-related myopathy can be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Bethlem myopathy is typically inherited in an autosomal dominant manner, as are some cases of the intermediate form and a few rare instances of Ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In other cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent.  Collagen VI-related myopathy can be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy is typically inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, as are some cases of the intermediate form and a few rare instances of Bethlem myopathy. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is familial paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.

Question: Is atelosteogenesis type 3 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Walker-Warburg syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Smith-Magenis syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Smith-Magenis syndrome is typically not inherited. This condition usually results from a genetic change that occurs during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. Most often, people with Smith-Magenis syndrome have no history of the condition in their family.

Question: Is glycogen storage disease type VI inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is ring chromosome 14 syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Ring chromosome 14 syndrome is almost never inherited. A ring chromosome typically occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. In some cases, the ring chromosome is present in only some of a person's cells. This situation is known as mosaicism.  Most affected individuals have no history of the disorder in their families. However, at least two families have been reported in which a ring chromosome 14 was passed from a mother to her children.

Question: Is Griscelli syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Joubert syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Joubert syndrome typically has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they usually do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Rare cases of Joubert syndrome are inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. In these cases, the causative gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is neurofibromatosis type 1 inherited ?
Answer: Neurofibromatosis type 1 is considered to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. People with this condition are born with one mutated copy of the NF1 gene in each cell. In about half of cases, the altered gene is inherited from an affected parent. The remaining cases result from new mutations in the NF1 gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Unlike most other autosomal dominant conditions, in which one altered copy of a gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder, two copies of the NF1 gene must be altered to trigger tumor formation in neurofibromatosis type 1. A mutation in the second copy of the NF1 gene occurs during a person's lifetime in specialized cells surrounding nerves. Almost everyone who is born with one NF1 mutation acquires a second mutation in many cells and develops the tumors characteristic of neurofibromatosis type 1.

Question: Is adenosine deaminase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is myotonic dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: Both types of myotonic dystrophy are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.  As myotonic dystrophy is passed from one generation to the next, the disorder generally begins earlier in life and signs and symptoms become more severe. This phenomenon, called anticipation, has been reported with both types of myotonic dystrophy. However, the evidence for anticipation appears to be strongest in myotonic dystrophy type 1. In this form of the disorder, anticipation is caused by an increase in the length of the unstable region in the DMPK gene. It is less clear whether anticipation occurs in myotonic dystrophy type 2, and the mechanism is unknown. A longer unstable region in the CNBP gene does not appear to influence the age of onset of the disorder.

Question: Is Pol III-related leukodystrophy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Legius syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Perrault syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hepatic veno-occlusive disease with immunodeficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy inherited ?
Answer: Up to half of all cases of ARVC appear to run in families. Most familial cases of the disease have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  Rarely, ARVC has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is dihydropyrimidinase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is MYH9-related disorder inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Approximately 30 percent of cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Ellis-van Creveld syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Lennox-Gastaut syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. However, 3 to 30 percent of people with this condition have a family history of some type of epilepsy. People with the cryptogenic form of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome are more likely than people with the symptomatic form to have a family history of epilepsy.

Question: Is nonsyndromic aplasia cutis congenita inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of nonsyndromic aplasia cutis congenita are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. When the condition runs in families, inheritance usually follows an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Rarely, the condition appears to follow an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is DOORS syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Arts syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell sometimes causes features of the disorder; in other cases, these females do not experience any symptoms.  In the small number of Arts syndrome cases that have been identified, affected individuals have inherited the mutation from a mother who carries an altered copy of the PRPS1 gene.

Question: Is triple A syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is ichthyosis with confetti inherited ?
Answer: Ichthyosis with confetti is considered to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Usually, the condition is caused by a new mutation that occurs very early in embryonic development (called a de novo mutation). In these cases, the affected individuals have no history of the disorder in their family. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent.

Question: Is congenital leptin deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is erythromelalgia inherited ?
Answer: Some cases of erythromelalgia occur in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some of these instances, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is glucose phosphate isomerase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is North American Indian childhood cirrhosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is factor XIII deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Inherited factor XIII deficiency is considered to have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means that it results when both copies of either the F13A1 gene or the F13B gene in each cell have mutations.  Some people, including parents of individuals with factor XIII deficiency, carry a single mutated copy of the F13A1 or F13B gene in each cell. These mutation carriers have a reduced amount of factor XIII in their bloodstream (20 to 60 percent of normal), and they may experience abnormal bleeding after surgery, dental work, or major trauma. However, most people who carry one mutated copy of the F13A1 or F13B gene do not have abnormal bleeding episodes under normal circumstances, and so they never come to medical attention.  The acquired form of factor XIII deficiency is not inherited and does not run in families.

Question: Is cryptogenic cirrhosis inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of cryptogenic cirrhosis are not inherited. However, people with a family history of liver disease or autoimmune disease are at an increased risk of developing these diseases themselves, and possibly cirrhosis.  In individuals with an associated keratin gene mutation, the risk of developing cryptogenic cirrhosis appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of developing cryptogenic cirrhosis. In these families, people inherit an increased risk of cryptogenic cirrhosis, not the disease itself.

Question: Is medullary cystic kidney disease type 1 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Gilbert syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Gilbert syndrome can have different inheritance patterns. When the condition is caused by the UGT1A1*28 change in the promoter region of the UGT1A1 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have the mutation. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  When the condition is caused by a missense mutation in the UGT1A1 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. A more severe condition known as Crigler-Najjar syndrome occurs when both copies of the UGT1A1 gene have mutations.

Question: Is glycogen storage disease type IX inherited ?
Answer: GSD IX can have different inheritance patterns depending on the genetic cause of the condition.  When caused by mutations in the PHKA1 or PHKA2 gene, GSD IX is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. These genes are located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. However, some women with one altered copy of the PHKA2 gene have signs and symptoms of GSD IX, such as mild hepatomegaly or short stature in childhood. These features are usually mild but can be more severe in rare cases. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  When the condition is caused by mutations in the PHKB or PHKG2 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is nonsyndromic holoprosencephaly inherited ?
Answer: Nonsyndromic holoprosencephaly is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means an alteration in one copy of a gene in each cell is usually sufficient to cause the disorder. However, not all people with a gene mutation will develop signs and symptoms of the condition.  In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one parent who may or may not have mild features of the condition. Other cases result from a new gene mutation and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is familial erythrocytosis inherited ?
Answer: Familial erythrocytosis can have different inheritance patterns depending on the gene involved.  When the condition is caused by mutations in the EPOR, EGLN1, or EPAS1 gene, it has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most affected individuals inherit the altered gene from one affected parent.  When familial erythrocytosis is caused by mutations in the VHL gene, it has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is autosomal dominant congenital stationary night blindness inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Romano-Ward syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is typically inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. A small percentage of cases result from new mutations in one of the genes described above. These cases occur in people with no history of Romano-Ward syndrome in their family.

Question: Is Timothy syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is considered to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered CACNA1C gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene, and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Less commonly, people with Timothy syndrome inherit the altered gene from an unaffected parent who is mosaic for a CACNA1C mutation. Mosaicism means that the parent has the mutation in some cells (including egg or sperm cells), but not in others.

Question: Is phosphoglycerate kinase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The PGK1 gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Females with one altered PGK1 gene, however, may have some features of phosphoglycerate kinase deficiency, such as anemia. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is fumarase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA hydratase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome inherited ?
Answer: An increased risk of developing FXTAS is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The FMR1 gene is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. (The Y chromosome is the other sex chromosome.) The inheritance is dominant because one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to elevate the risk of developing FXTAS. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the FMR1 gene in each cell can lead to the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell can result in the disorder. However, not all people who inherit an FMR1 premutation will develop FXTAS. In X-linked dominant disorders, males typically experience more severe symptoms than females.  Fewer females than males develop FXTAS because the X chromosome that contains the premutation may be turned off (inactive) due to a process called X-inactivation. Early in embryonic development in females, one of the two X chromosomes is permanently inactivated in somatic cells (cells other than egg and sperm cells). X-inactivation ensures that females, like males, have only one active copy of the X chromosome in each body cell. Usually X-inactivation occurs randomly, so that each X chromosome is active in about half the body's cells. Sometimes X-inactivation is not random, and one X chromosome is active in more than half of cells. When X-inactivation does not occur randomly, it is called skewed X-inactivation. Researchers suspect that the distribution of active and inactive X chromosomes may help determine the severity of FXTAS in females or whether they develop signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Perry syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. However, some cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is von Hippel-Lindau syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Mutations in the VHL gene are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of developing tumors and cysts. Most people with von Hippel-Lindau syndrome inherit an altered copy of the gene from an affected parent. In about 20 percent of cases, however, the altered gene is the result of a new mutation that occurred during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or very early in development.  Unlike most autosomal dominant conditions, in which one altered copy of a gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder, two copies of the VHL gene must be altered to trigger tumor and cyst formation in von Hippel-Lindau syndrome. A mutation in the second copy of the VHL gene occurs during a person's lifetime in certain cells within organs such as the brain, retina, and kidneys. Cells with two altered copies of this gene make no functional VHL protein, which allows tumors and cysts to develop. Almost everyone who inherits one VHL mutation will eventually acquire a mutation in the second copy of the gene in some cells, leading to the features of von Hippel-Lindau syndrome.

Question: Is cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is lymphedema-distichiasis syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Jacobsen syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Jacobsen syndrome are not inherited. They result from a chromosomal deletion that occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family, although they can pass the chromosome deletion to their children.  Between 5 and 10 percent of people with Jacobsen syndrome inherit the chromosome abnormality from an unaffected parent. In these cases, the parent carries a chromosomal rearrangement called a balanced translocation, in which a segment from chromosome 11 has traded places with a segment from another chromosome. In a balanced translocation, no genetic material is gained or lost. Balanced translocations usually do not cause any health problems; however, they can become unbalanced as they are passed to the next generation.  Children who inherit an unbalanced translocation can have a chromosomal rearrangement with some missing genetic material and some extra genetic material. Individuals with Jacobsen syndrome who inherit an unbalanced translocation are missing genetic material from the end of the long arm of chromosome 11 and have extra genetic material from another chromosome. These chromosomal changes result in the health problems characteristic of this disorder.

Question: Is Mainzer-Saldino syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Angelman syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Angelman syndrome are not inherited, particularly those caused by a deletion in the maternal chromosome 15 or by paternal uniparental disomy. These genetic changes occur as random events during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) or in early embryonic development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family.  Rarely, a genetic change responsible for Angelman syndrome can be inherited. For example, it is possible for a mutation in the UBE3A gene or in the nearby region of DNA that controls gene activation to be passed from one generation to the next.

Question: Is mucopolysaccharidosis type I inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to raise the risk of developing epilepsy. About 70 percent of people who inherit a mutation in the CHRNA2, CHRNA4, or CHRNB2 gene will develop seizures. In most cases, an affected person has one affected parent and other relatives with the condition. Other cases are described as sporadic, which means an affected person has no family history of the disorder.

Question: Is ocular albinism inherited ?
Answer: Ocular albinism type 1 is inherited in an X-linked pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the GPR143 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the characteristic features of ocular albinism. Because females have two copies of the X chromosome, women with only one copy of a GPR143 mutation in each cell usually do not experience vision loss or other significant eye abnormalities. They may have mild changes in retinal pigmentation that can be detected during an eye examination.

Question: Is hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is gray platelet syndrome inherited ?
Answer: When gray platelet syndrome is caused by NBEAL2 gene mutations, it has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the altered gene in each cell.  Gray platelet syndrome can also be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. An affected person often inherits the condition from one affected parent. Researchers are working to determine which gene or genes are associated with the autosomal dominant form of gray platelet syndrome.

Question: Is Rothmund-Thomson syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is familial exudative vitreoretinopathy inherited ?
Answer: Familial exudative vitreoretinopathy has different inheritance patterns depending on the gene involved. Most commonly, the condition results from mutations in the FZD4 or LRP5 gene and has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most people with autosomal dominant familial exudative vitreoretinopathy inherit the altered gene from a parent, although the parent may not have any signs and symptoms associated with this disorder.  Familial exudative vitreoretinopathy caused by LRP5 gene mutations can also have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with autosomal recessive familial exudative vitreoretinopathy each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they do not have the disorder.  When familial exudative vitreoretinopathy is caused by mutations in the NDP gene, it has an X-linked recessive pattern of inheritance. The NDP gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is spondyloperipheral dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is probably inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is platyspondylic lethal skeletal dysplasia, Torrance type inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation must be present in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one altered copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. She can pass on the mutated gene, but usually does not experience signs and symptoms of the disorder. Carriers of SLC16A2 mutations have normal intelligence and do not experience problems with movement. Some carriers have been diagnosed with thyroid disease, a condition which is relatively common in the general population. It is unclear whether thyroid disease is related to SLC16A2 gene mutations in these cases.

Question: Is triosephosphate isomerase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Clouston syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Rarely, both copies of the gene are altered, leading to more severe signs and symptoms.  In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.

Question: Is keratitis-ichthyosis-deafness syndrome inherited ?
Answer: KID syndrome is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. However, most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  A few families have had a condition resembling KID syndrome with an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. In autosomal recessive inheritance, both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Affected individuals in these families have liver disease, which is not a feature of the autosomal dominant form. The autosomal recessive condition is sometimes called Desmons syndrome. It is unknown whether it is also caused by GJB2 gene mutations.

Question: Is 7q11.23 duplication syndrome inherited ?
Answer: 7q11.23 duplication syndrome is considered to be an autosomal dominant condition, which means one copy of chromosome 7 with the duplication in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from a duplication that occurs during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) or in early fetal development. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Less commonly, an affected person inherits the chromosome with a duplicated segment from a parent.

Question: Is 22q13.3 deletion syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of 22q13.3 deletion syndrome are not inherited. The deletion occurs most often as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family, though they can pass the chromosome deletion to their children.  When 22q13.3 deletion syndrome is inherited, its inheritance pattern is considered autosomal dominant because a deletion in one copy of chromosome 22 in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. About 15 to 20 percent of people with 22q13.3 deletion syndrome inherit a chromosome abnormality from an unaffected parent. In these cases, the parent carries a chromosomal rearrangement called a balanced translocation, in which a segment from one chromosome has traded places with a segment from another chromosome, but no genetic material is gained or lost. Balanced translocations usually do not cause any health problems; however, they can become unbalanced as they are passed to the next generation. Children who inherit an unbalanced translocation can have a chromosomal rearrangement with extra or missing genetic material. Individuals with 22q13.3 deletion syndrome who inherit an unbalanced translocation are missing genetic material from the long arm of chromosome 22, which results in the health problems characteristic of this disorder.

Question: Is ALG6-congenital disorder of glycosylation inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is sialuria inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most reported cases have occurred in people with no known history of the disorder in their family and may result from new mutations in the gene.

Question: Is Schindler disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Lynch syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Lynch syndrome cancer risk is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one inherited copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase cancer risk. It is important to note that people inherit an increased risk of cancer, not the disease itself. Not all people who inherit mutations in these genes will develop cancer.

Question: Is Gaucher disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Cockayne syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is actin-accumulation myopathy inherited ?
Answer: Actin-accumulation myopathy is an autosomal dominant condition, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases are not inherited; they result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Hirschsprung disease inherited ?
Answer: Approximately 20 percent of cases of Hirschsprung disease occur in multiple members of the same family. The remainder of cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their families.  Hirschsprung disease appears to have a dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell may be sufficient to cause the disorder. The inheritance is considered to have incomplete penetrance because not everyone who inherits the altered gene from a parent develops Hirschsprung disease.

Question: Is fragile X syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Fragile X syndrome is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. (The Y chromosome is the other sex chromosome.) The inheritance is dominant if one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. X-linked dominant means that in females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of a gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of a gene in each cell causes the disorder. In most cases, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females.  In women, the FMR1 gene premutation on the X chromosome can expand to more than 200 CGG repeats in cells that develop into eggs. This means that women with the premutation have an increased risk of having a child with fragile X syndrome. By contrast, the premutation in men does not expand to more than 200 repeats as it is passed to the next generation. Men pass the premutation only to their daughters. Their sons receive a Y chromosome, which does not include the FMR1 gene.

Question: Is ZAP70-related severe combined immunodeficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Cant syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered ABCC9 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In a few reported cases, an affected person has inherited the mutation from one affected parent.

Question: Is Russell-Silver syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Russell-Silver syndrome are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Less commonly, Russell-Silver syndrome can run in families. In some affected families, the condition appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of a genetic change in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In other families, the condition has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of a gene are altered in each cell. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Hennekam syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is eosinophil peroxidase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Friedreich ataxia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Meesmann corneal dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered KRT12 or KRT3 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the condition from an affected parent.

Question: Is factor X deficiency inherited ?
Answer: When this condition is caused by mutations in the F10 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Acquired factor X deficiency is not inherited, and generally occurs in individuals with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Senior-Lken syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is primary myelofibrosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is generally not inherited but arises from gene mutations that occur in early blood-forming cells after conception. These alterations are called somatic mutations.

Question: Is piebaldism inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Laron syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Laron syndrome are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the GHR gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Much less commonly, the condition has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most of these cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.

Question: Is spastic paraplegia type 15 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is vitamin D-dependent rickets inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is 1q21.1 microdeletion inherited ?
Answer: 1q21.1 microdeletion is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means that missing genetic material from one of the two copies of chromosome 1 in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of delayed development, intellectual disability, and other signs and symptoms.  In at least half of cases, individuals with a 1q21.1 microdeletion inherit the chromosomal change from a parent. In general, parents who carry a 1q21.1 microdeletion have milder signs and symptoms than their children who inherit the deletion, even though the deletion is the same size. About one-quarter of these parents have no associated features.  A 1q21.1 microdeletion can also occur in people whose parents do not carry the chromosomal change. In this situation, the deletion occurs most often as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) in a parent or in early embryonic development.

Question: Is autosomal recessive hyper-IgE syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Crigler-Najjar syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Crigler-Najjar syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the UGT1A1 gene in each cell have mutations. A less severe condition called Gilbert syndrome can occur when one copy of the UGT1A1 gene has a mutation.

Question: Is idiopathic inflammatory myopathy inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. However, several people with idiopathic inflammatory myopathy have had close relatives with autoimmune disorders. Autoimmune diseases occur when the immune system malfunctions and attacks the body's tissues and organs.  A small percentage of all cases of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy have been reported to run in families; however, the condition does not have a clear pattern of inheritance. Multiple genetic and environmental factors likely play a part in determining the risk of developing this disorder. As a result, inheriting a genetic variation linked with idiopathic inflammatory myopathy does not mean that a person will develop the condition.

Question: Is isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is spastic paraplegia type 8 inherited ?
Answer: Spastic paraplegia type 8 is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is lamellar ichthyosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Huntington disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. An affected person usually inherits the altered gene from one affected parent. In rare cases, an individual with Huntington disease does not have a parent with the disorder.  As the altered HTT gene is passed from one generation to the next, the size of the CAG trinucleotide repeat often increases in size. A larger number of repeats is usually associated with an earlier onset of signs and symptoms. This phenomenon is called anticipation. People with the adult-onset form of Huntington disease typically have 40 to 50 CAG repeats in the HTT gene, while people with the juvenile form of the disorder tend to have more than 60 CAG repeats.  Individuals who have 27 to 35 CAG repeats in the HTT gene do not develop Huntington disease, but they are at risk of having children who will develop the disorder. As the gene is passed from parent to child, the size of the CAG trinucleotide repeat may lengthen into the range associated with Huntington disease (36 repeats or more).

Question: Is dyserythropoietic anemia and thrombocytopenia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes in each cell. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Because females have two copies of the X chromosome, one altered copy of the gene in each cell usually leads to less severe symptoms in females than in males or may cause no symptoms in females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is progressive pseudorheumatoid dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is rapid-onset dystonia parkinsonism inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered ATP1A3 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits a mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Not everyone who has an ATP1A3 mutation will ultimately develop the signs and symptoms of rapid-onset dystonia parkinsonism. It is unclear why some people with a gene mutation develop movement abnormalities and others do not.

Question: Is breast cancer inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of breast cancer are not caused by inherited genetic factors. These cancers are associated with somatic mutations in breast cells that are acquired during a person's lifetime, and they do not cluster in families.  In hereditary breast cancer, the way that cancer risk is inherited depends on the gene involved. For example, mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase a person's chance of developing cancer. Although breast cancer is more common in women than in men, the mutated gene can be inherited from either the mother or the father.  In the other syndromes discussed above, the gene mutations that increase cancer risk also have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. It is important to note that people inherit an increased likelihood of developing cancer, not the disease itself. Not all people who inherit mutations in these genes will ultimately develop cancer.  In many cases of breast cancer that clusters in families, the genetic basis for the disease and the mechanism of inheritance are unclear.

Question: Is Kniest dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is ethylmalonic encephalopathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is cystinosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is mal de Meleda inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is familial hypobetalipoproteinemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal codominant pattern. Codominance means that copies of the gene from both parents are active (expressed), and both copies influence the genetic trait. In FHBL, a change in one copy of the APOB gene in each cell can cause the condition, but changes in both copies of the gene cause more severe health problems.

Question: Is guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is multiple epiphyseal dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia can have different inheritance patterns.  This condition can be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases may result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia can also be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is autosomal dominant partial epilepsy with auditory features inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered LGI1 gene in each cell is sufficient to raise the risk of developing epilepsy. About two-thirds of people who inherit a mutation in this gene will develop seizures. In most cases, an affected person has one affected parent and other relatives with the condition.

Question: Is hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets inherited ?
Answer: Hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets can have several patterns of inheritance. When the condition results from mutations in the PHEX gene, it is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The PHEX gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  Less commonly, hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets can have an X-linked recessive pattern of inheritance. This form of the condition is often called Dent disease. Like the PHEX gene, the gene associated with Dent disease is located on the X chromosome. In males, one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females, a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females.  In a few families, hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets has had an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. The rare condition HHRH has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. However, some parents of children with HHRH have experienced hypercalcuria and kidney stones.

Question: Is Glanzmann thrombasthenia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is neuroferritinopathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases may result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Diamond-Blackfan anemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In approximately 45 percent of cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. The remaining cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is 1p36 deletion syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of 1p36 deletion syndrome are not inherited. They result from a chromosomal deletion that occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family.  About 20 percent of people with 1p36 deletion syndrome inherit the chromosome with a deleted segment from an unaffected parent. In these cases, the parent carries a chromosomal rearrangement called a balanced translocation, in which no genetic material is gained or lost. Balanced translocations usually do not cause any health problems; however, they can become unbalanced as they are passed to the next generation. Children who inherit an unbalanced translocation can have a chromosomal rearrangement with extra or missing genetic material. Individuals with 1p36 deletion syndrome who inherit an unbalanced translocation are missing genetic material from the short arm of chromosome 1, which results in birth defects and other health problems characteristic of this disorder.

Question: Is Crouzonodermoskeletal syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. More commonly, this condition results from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is osteoglophonic dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. However, some affected individuals inherit the mutation from an affected parent.

Question: Is Schimke immuno-osseous dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: Mutations in the SMARCAL1 gene are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means that an increased risk of Schimke immuno-osseous dysplasia results from mutations in both copies of the SMARCAL1 gene in each cell. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is oculocutaneous albinism inherited ?
Answer: Oculocutaneous albinism is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is allergic asthma inherited ?
Answer: Allergic asthma can be passed through generations in families, but the inheritance pattern is unknown. People with mutations in one or more of the associated genes inherit an increased risk of allergic asthma, not the condition itself. Because allergic asthma is a complex condition influenced by genetic and environmental factors, not all people with a mutation in an asthma-associated gene will develop the disorder.

Question: Is ovarian cancer inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of ovarian cancer are not caused by inherited genetic factors. These cancers are associated with somatic mutations that are acquired during a person's lifetime, and they do not cluster in families.  A predisposition to cancer caused by a germline mutation is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase a person's chance of developing cancer. Although ovarian cancer occurs only in women, the mutated gene can be inherited from either the mother or the father. It is important to note that people inherit an increased likelihood of developing cancer, not the disease itself. Not all people who inherit mutations in these genes will ultimately develop cancer.  In many cases of ovarian cancer that clusters in families, the genetic basis for the disease and the mechanism of inheritance are unclear.

Question: Is multiple lentigines syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is adult polyglucosan body disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is cerebral cavernous malformation inherited ?
Answer: This condition has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In the familial form, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent.  Most people with cerebral cavernous malformations have the sporadic form of the disorder. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is succinate-CoA ligase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Cowden syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Cowden syndrome and Cowden-like syndrome are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition and increase the risk of developing cancer. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases may result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is familial glucocorticoid deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is caudal regression syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Caudal regression syndrome occurs sporadically, which means it occurs in people with no history of the condition in their family. Multiple genetic and environmental factors likely play a part in determining the risk of developing this condition.

Question: Is Mowat-Wilson syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is intranuclear rod myopathy inherited ?
Answer: Intranuclear rod myopathy is an autosomal dominant condition, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases are not inherited; they result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is craniofacial microsomia inherited ?
Answer: Craniofacial microsomia most often occurs in a single individual in a family and is not inherited. If the condition is caused by a chromosomal abnormality, it may be inherited from one affected parent or it may result from a new abnormality in the chromosome and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  In 1 to 2 percent of cases, craniofacial microsomia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In rare cases, the condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. The gene or genes involved in craniofacial microsomia are unknown.  In some affected families, people seem to inherit an increased risk of developing craniofacial microsomia, not the condition itself. In these cases, some combination of genetic changes and environmental factors may be involved.

Question: Is aromatase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is cri-du-chat syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of cri-du-chat syndrome are not inherited. The deletion occurs most often as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family.  About 10 percent of people with cri-du-chat syndrome inherit the chromosome abnormality from an unaffected parent. In these cases, the parent carries a chromosomal rearrangement called a balanced translocation, in which no genetic material is gained or lost. Balanced translocations usually do not cause any health problems; however, they can become unbalanced as they are passed to the next generation. Children who inherit an unbalanced translocation can have a chromosomal rearrangement with extra or missing genetic material. Individuals with cri-du-chat syndrome who inherit an unbalanced translocation are missing genetic material from the short arm of chromosome 5, which results in the intellectual disability and health problems characteristic of this disorder.

Question: Is Schwartz-Jampel syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Meckel syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is celiac disease inherited ?
Answer: Celiac disease tends to cluster in families. Parents, siblings, or children (first-degree relatives) of people with celiac disease have between a 4 and 15 percent chance of developing the disorder. However, the inheritance pattern is unknown.

Question: Is Lesch-Nyhan syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is dopa-responsive dystonia inherited ?
Answer: When dopa-responsive dystonia is caused by mutations in the GCH1 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Some people who inherit the altered GCH1 gene never develop features of dopa-responsive dystonia. (This situation is known as reduced penetrance.) It is unclear why some people with a mutated gene develop the disease and other people with a mutated gene do not. For unknown reasons, dopa-responsive dystonia caused by mutations in the GCH1 gene affects females two to four times more often than males.  When TH gene mutations are responsible for causing dopa-responsive dystonia, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  When dopa-responsive dystonia is caused by mutations in the SPR gene, it can have either an autosomal recessive or, less commonly, an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.

Question: Is cutis laxa inherited ?
Answer: Cutis laxa can have an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked recessive pattern of inheritance.  When cutis laxa is caused by ELN mutations, it has an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Rarely, cases of cutis laxa resulting from FBLN5 mutations can also have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.  Researchers have described at least two forms of autosomal recessive cutis laxa. Type I results from mutations in the EFEMP2 or FBLN5 gene, while type II is caused by mutations in the ATP6V02 gene. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Occipital horn syndrome has an X-linked recessive pattern of inheritance. It results from mutations in the ATP7A gene, which is located on the X chromosome. The X chromosome is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is Bjrnstad syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Bjrnstad syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is chordoma inherited ?
Answer: When development of a chordoma is associated with a duplication of the T gene inherited from a parent, one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of the disorder, which is an inheritance pattern called autosomal dominant. People with this duplication inherit an increased risk of this condition, not the condition itself.  Other cases of chordoma are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the condition in their family.

Question: Is juvenile Paget disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is anencephaly inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of anencephaly are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A small percentage of cases have been reported to run in families; however, the condition does not have a clear pattern of inheritance. For parents who have had a child with anencephaly, the risk of having another affected child is increased compared with the risk in the general population.

Question: Is Adams-Oliver syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Adams-Oliver syndrome can have different inheritance patterns. When caused by mutations in the ARHGAP31, DLL4, NOTCH1, or RBPJ gene, the condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. The altered gene is typically inherited from an affected parent. Some cases associated with NOTCH1 gene mutations result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene that occur during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  When caused by mutations in the DOCK6 or EOGT gene, Adams-Oliver syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. In conditions with this pattern of inheritance, both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Jackson-Weiss syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is mucolipidosis II alpha/beta inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is myoclonus-dystonia inherited ?
Answer: Myoclonus-dystonia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  People normally inherit one copy of each gene from their mother and one copy from their father. For most genes, both copies are active, or "turned on," in all cells. For a small subset of genes, however, only one of the two copies is active. For some of these genes, only the copy inherited from a person's father (the paternal copy) is active, while for other genes, only the copy inherited from a person's mother (the maternal copy) is active. These differences in gene activation based on the gene's parent of origin are caused by a phenomenon called genomic imprinting.  Only the paternal copy of the SGCE gene is active. Myoclonus-dystonia occurs when mutations affect the paternal copy of the SGCE gene. Mutations in the maternal copy of the gene typically do not cause any health problems.

Question: Is complete LCAT deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Peters plus syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Holt-Oram syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is essential thrombocythemia inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of essential thrombocythemia are not inherited. Instead, the condition arises from gene mutations that occur in early blood-forming cells after conception. These alterations are called somatic mutations.  Less commonly, essential thrombocythemia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. When it is inherited, the condition is called familial essential thrombocythemia.

Question: Is familial isolated hyperparathyroidism inherited ?
Answer: This condition is typically inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is polycystic kidney disease inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of polycystic kidney disease have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. People with this condition are born with one mutated copy of the PKD1 or PKD2 gene in each cell. In about 90 percent of these cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. The other 10 percent of cases result from a new mutation in one of the genes and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Although one altered copy of a gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder, an additional mutation in the second copy of the PKD1 or PKD2 gene may make cysts grow faster and increase the severity of the disease. The rate at which cysts enlarge and cause a loss of kidney function varies widely, and may be influenced by mutations in other genes that have not been identified.  Polycystic kidney disease also can be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. People with this form of the condition have two altered copies of the PKHD1 gene in each cell. The parents of a child with an autosomal recessive disorder are not affected but are carriers of one copy of the altered gene.

Question: Is familial cylindromatosis inherited ?
Answer: Susceptibility to familial cylindromatosis has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell increases the risk of developing this condition. However, a second, non-inherited mutation is required for development of skin appendage tumors in this disorder.

Question: Is acute promyelocytic leukemia inherited ?
Answer: Acute promyelocytic leukemia is not inherited but arises from a translocation in the body's cells that occurs after conception.

Question: Is Horner syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Horner syndrome is usually not inherited and occurs in individuals with no history of the disorder in their family. Acquired Horner syndrome and most cases of congenital Horner syndrome have nongenetic causes. Rarely, congenital Horner syndrome is passed down within a family in a pattern that appears to be autosomal dominant, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. However, no genes associated with Horner syndrome have been identified.

Question: Is giant axonal neuropathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is dopamine transporter deficiency syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is globozoospermia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is recurrent hydatidiform mole inherited ?
Answer: This condition is often inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means a woman has to have mutations in both copies of the gene in each of her cells to have recurrent hydatidiform mole pregnancies. Because the mutations are present in all of a woman's cells, including oocytes (which need these genes to promote normal embryonic development), a hydatidiform mole will develop in each pregnancy that occurs with those egg cells.

Question: Is core binding factor acute myeloid leukemia inherited ?
Answer: CBF-AML is not inherited but arises from genetic rearrangements in the body's cells that occur after conception.

Question: Is Gillespie syndrome inherited ?
Answer: In some cases, including those in which Gillespie syndrome is caused by PAX6 gene mutations, the condition occurs in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Some affected individuals inherit the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Gillespie syndrome can also be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The gene or genes involved in these cases are unknown. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is pachyonychia congenita inherited ?
Answer: Pachyonychia congenita is considered an autosomal dominant condition, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In about half of all cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. The other half of cases result from a new (de novo) mutation in the gene that occurs during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is lattice corneal dystrophy type II inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Although a mutation in one copy of the gene can cause the disorder, people with mutations in both copies of the gene have more severe signs and symptoms.

Question: Is Nager syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Nager syndrome are sporadic, which means that they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Less commonly, this condition has been found to run in families. When the disorder is familial, it can have an autosomal dominant or an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.  Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder, although no genes have been associated with Nager syndrome. In autosomal dominant Nager syndrome, an affected person usually inherits the condition from one affected parent.  Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of a mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Nager syndrome is thought to have an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern when unaffected parents have more than one affected child.  The underlying genetic cause may differ among unrelated individuals with Nager syndrome, even among those with the same pattern of inheritance.

Question: Is Meier-Gorlin syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is proopiomelanocortin deficiency inherited ?
Answer: POMC deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with this condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene. They typically do not have POMC deficiency, but they may have an increased risk of obesity.

Question: Is leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is capillary malformation-arteriovenous malformation syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is 6q24-related transient neonatal diabetes mellitus inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of 6q24-related transient neonatal diabetes mellitus are not inherited, particularly those caused by paternal uniparental disomy. In these cases, genetic changes occur as random events during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) or in early embryonic development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family.  Sometimes, the genetic change responsible for 6q24-related transient neonatal diabetes mellitus is inherited. For example, a duplication of genetic material on the paternal chromosome 6 can be passed from one generation to the next.  When 6q24-related transient neonatal diabetes mellitus is caused by ZFP57 gene mutations, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is nonbullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is type 1 diabetes inherited ?
Answer: A predisposition to develop type 1 diabetes is passed through generations in families, but the inheritance pattern is unknown.

Question: Is campomelic dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: Campomelic dysplasia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in or near the SOX9 gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Rarely, affected individuals inherit a chromosome abnormality from a parent who may or may not show mild signs and symptoms of campomelic dysplasia.

Question: Is glycogen storage disease type 0 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is congenital fiber-type disproportion inherited ?
Answer: Congenital fiber-type disproportion can have multiple inheritance patterns.  When this condition is caused by mutations in the ACTA1 gene, it usually occurs in an autosomal dominant pattern. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  Most other cases of congenital fiber-type disproportion, including those caused by mutations in the RYR1 gene, have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  When this condition is caused by mutations in the TPM3 gene, it can occur in either an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive pattern.  In rare cases, this condition can be inherited in an X-linked pattern, although the gene or genes associated with X-linked congenital fiber-type disproportion have not been identified. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes in each cell. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Because females have two copies of the X chromosome, one altered copy of the gene in each cell usually leads to less severe symptoms in females than in males or may cause no symptoms at all. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  It is estimated that 40 percent of individuals with congenital fiber-type disproportion have an affected relative.

Question: Is type A insulin resistance syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Type A insulin resistance syndrome can have either an autosomal dominant or, less commonly, an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.  In autosomal dominant inheritance, one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  In autosomal recessive inheritance, both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is optic atrophy type 1 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is geleophysic dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type V inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome is considered to be an autosomal dominant condition, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  Cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome usually results from new gene mutations and occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In a few reported cases, an affected person has inherited the condition from an affected parent.

Question: Is UV-sensitive syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is PDGFRA-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia inherited ?
Answer: PDGFRA-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia is not inherited and occurs in people with no history of the condition in their families. Mutations that lead to a PDGFRA fusion gene and PDGFRA point mutations are somatic mutations, which means they occur during a person's lifetime and are found only in certain cells. Somatic mutations are not inherited. Males are more likely to develop PDGFRA-associated chronic eosinophilic leukemia than females because, for unknown reasons, PDGFRA fusion genes are found more often in males.

Question: Is Tay-Sachs disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Fryns syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Fryns syndrome appears to be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. However, no associated gene has been identified. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the altered gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is malonyl-CoA decarboxylase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is sick sinus syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of sick sinus syndrome are not inherited. They are described as sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  When sick sinus syndrome results from mutations in the HCN4 gene, it has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.  When sick sinus syndrome is caused by mutations in the SCN5A gene, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is GM3 synthase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Myhre syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is ADCY5-related dyskinesia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Shwachman-Diamond syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is essential tremor inherited ?
Answer: Essential tremor can be passed through generations in families, but the inheritance pattern varies. In most affected families, essential tremor appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder, although no genes that cause essential tremor have been identified. In other families, the inheritance pattern is unclear. Essential tremor may also appear in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  In some families, some individuals have essential tremor while others have other movement disorders, such as involuntary muscle tensing (dystonia). The potential genetic connection between essential tremor and other movement disorders is an active area of research.

Question: Is spastic paraplegia type 7 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In about two-thirds of cases, an affected male inherits the mutation from his mother, who carries one altered copy of the DMD gene. The other one-third of cases probably result from new mutations in the gene in affected males and are not inherited.  In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one mutated copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. She can pass on the altered gene but usually does not experience signs and symptoms of the disorder. Occasionally, however, females who carry a DMD gene mutation may have muscle weakness and cramping. These symptoms are typically milder than the severe muscle weakness and atrophy seen in affected males. Females who carry a DMD gene mutation also have an increased risk of developing heart abnormalities including cardiomyopathy.

Question: Is combined pituitary hormone deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of combined pituitary hormone deficiency are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Less commonly, this condition has been found to run in families. When the disorder is familial, it can have an autosomal dominant or an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.  Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of a mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Most cases of familial combined pituitary hormone deficiency are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.

Question: Is multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease inherited ?
Answer: The pattern of inheritance varies with the type of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. CMT1, most cases of CMT2, and most intermediate forms are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. This pattern of inheritance means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one affected parent.  CMT4, a few CMT2 subtypes, and some intermediate forms are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  CMTX is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome. The inheritance is dominant if one copy of the altered gene is sufficient to cause the condition. In most cases, affected males, who have the alteration on their only copy of the X chromosome, experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females, who have two X chromosomes. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons. All daughters of affected men will have one altered X chromosome, but they may only have mild symptoms of the disorder.  Some cases of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease result from a new mutation and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is hypophosphatasia inherited ?
Answer: The severe forms of hypophosphatasia that appear early in life are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Autosomal recessive inheritance means that two copies of the gene in each cell are altered. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive disorder each carry one copy of the altered gene but do not show signs and symptoms of the disorder.  Milder forms of hypophosphatasia can have either an autosomal recessive or an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is supravalvular aortic stenosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. However, some people who inherit the altered gene never develop features of SVAS. (This situation is known as reduced penetrance.)  In some cases, a person inherits the mutation from one parent who has the mutation. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is epidermolytic hyperkeratosis inherited ?
Answer: Epidermolytic hyperkeratosis can have different inheritance patterns. About half of the cases of this condition result from new mutations in the KRT1 or KRT10 gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  When epidermolytic hyperkeratosis is inherited, it is usually in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered KRT1 or KRT10 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  Very rarely, epidermolytic hyperkeratosis caused by mutations in the KRT10 gene can be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is progressive familial heart block inherited ?
Answer: Progressive familial heart block types I and II are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Some people with TRPM4 gene mutations never develop the condition, a situation known as reduced penetrance.  In most cases, an affected person has one parent with progressive familial heart block.

Question: Is fucosidosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Alzheimer disease inherited ?
Answer: The early-onset form of Alzheimer disease is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the altered gene from one affected parent.  The inheritance pattern of late-onset Alzheimer disease is uncertain. People who inherit one copy of the APOE e4 allele have an increased chance of developing the disease; those who inherit two copies of the allele are at even greater risk. It is important to note that people with the APOE e4 allele inherit an increased risk of developing Alzheimer disease, not the disease itself. Not all people with Alzheimer disease have the e4 allele, and not all people who have the e4 allele will develop the disease.

Question: Is centronuclear myopathy inherited ?
Answer: When centronuclear myopathy is caused by mutations in the DNM2 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered DNM2 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Rarely, BIN1 gene mutations that are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern can cause centronuclear myopathy.  Centronuclear myopathy caused by TTN gene mutations and most cases caused by BIN1 gene mutations are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Other cases of centronuclear myopathy that are not caused by these genes are typically inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, although some follow an autosomal dominant pattern.

Question: Is glutathione synthetase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Koolen-de Vries syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Koolen-de Vries syndrome is considered an autosomal dominant condition because a deletion or mutation affecting one copy of the KANSL1 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, the disorder is not inherited. The genetic change occurs most often as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) or in early fetal development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family. While it is possible for them to pass the condition on to their children, no individuals with Koolen-de Vries syndrome have been known to reproduce.  Most people with Koolen-de Vries syndrome caused by a deletion have had at least one parent with a common variant of the 17q21.31 region of chromosome 17 called the H2 lineage. This variant is found in 20 percent of people of European and Middle Eastern descent, although it is rare in other populations. In the H2 lineage, a 900 kb segment of DNA, which includes the region deleted in most cases of Koolen-de Vries syndrome, has undergone an inversion. An inversion involves two breaks in a chromosome; the resulting piece of DNA is reversed and reinserted into the chromosome.  People with the H2 lineage have no health problems related to the inversion. However, genetic material can be lost or duplicated when the inversion is passed to the next generation. Other, unknown factors are thought to play a role in this process. So while the inversion is very common, only an extremely small percentage of parents with the inversion have a child affected by Koolen-de Vries syndrome.

Question: Is Williams syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Williams syndrome are not inherited but occur as random events during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) in a parent of an affected individual. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Williams syndrome is considered an autosomal dominant condition because one copy of the altered chromosome 7 in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In a small percentage of cases, people with Williams syndrome inherit the chromosomal deletion from a parent with the condition.

Question: Is juvenile primary osteoporosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is acatalasemia inherited ?
Answer: Acatalasemia has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means both copies of the CAT gene in each cell have mutations. When both copies of the gene are altered, the activity of catalase is reduced to less than 10 percent of normal.  When only one of the two copies of the CAT gene has a mutation, the activity of catalase is reduced by approximately half. This reduction in catalase activity is often called hypocatalasemia. Like acatalasemia, hypocatalasemia usually does not cause any health problems.

Question: Is Kuskokwim syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is ankylosing spondylitis inherited ?
Answer: Although ankylosing spondylitis can occur in more than one person in a family, it is not a purely genetic disease. Multiple genetic and environmental factors likely play a part in determining the risk of developing this disorder. As a result, inheriting a genetic variation linked with ankylosing spondylitis does not mean that a person will develop the condition, even in families in which more than one family member has the disorder. For example, about 80 percent of children who inherit HLA-B27 from a parent with ankylosing spondylitis do not develop the disorder.

Question: Is renal tubular acidosis with deafness inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia with immune deficiency inherited ?
Answer: When EDA-ID is caused by mutations in the IKBKG gene, it is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The IKBKG gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of the IKBKG gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  When EDA-ID is caused by mutations in the NFKBIA gene, the condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is McLeod neuroacanthocytosis syndrome inherited ?
Answer: McLeod neuroacanthocytosis syndrome is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation must be present in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. Rarely, females with a mutation in one copy of the XK gene can have the characteristic misshapen blood cells and movement problems associated with McLeod neuroacanthocytosis syndrome. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is Alagille syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered or deleted gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In approximately 30 to 50 percent of cases, an affected person inherits the mutation or deletion from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene or new deletions of genetic material on chromosome 20 that occur as random events during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  All cases of this condition result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene that occur during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is laryngo-onycho-cutaneous syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hereditary sensory neuropathy type IA inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is SYNGAP1-related intellectual disability inherited ?
Answer: SYNGAP1-related intellectual disability is classified as an autosomal dominant condition, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Almost all cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In at least one case, an affected person inherited the mutation from one affected parent.

Question: Is hypomyelination and congenital cataract inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is ALG12-congenital disorder of glycosylation inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus inherited ?
Answer: Familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus is almost always inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered AVP gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In a few affected families, the condition has had an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means that both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Parkes Weber syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Parkes Weber syndrome occur in people with no history of the condition in their family. These cases are described as sporadic.  When Parkes Weber syndrome is caused by mutations in the RASA1 gene, it is sometimes inherited from an affected parent. In these cases, the condition has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is 5q minus syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is generally not inherited but arises from a mutation in the body's cells that occurs after conception. This alteration is called a somatic mutation. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Lafora progressive myoclonus epilepsy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is ring chromosome 20 syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Ring chromosome 20 syndrome is almost never inherited. A ring chromosome typically occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. Often, the ring chromosome is present in only some of a person's cells. This situation is known as mosaicism.  Most affected individuals have no history of the disorder in their families. However, at least one family has been reported in which a ring chromosome 20 was passed from a mother to her children.

Question: Is Char syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases may result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is fragile XE syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Fragile XE syndrome is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. In most cases, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females.  In parents with the AFF2 gene premutation, the number of CCG repeats can expand to more than 200 in cells that develop into eggs or sperm. This means that parents with the premutation have an increased risk of having a child with fragile XE syndrome. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons; sons receive a Y chromosome from their father, which does not include the AFF2 gene.

Question: Is Sotos syndrome inherited ?
Answer: About 95 percent of Sotos syndrome cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Most of these cases result from new mutations involving the NSD1 gene.  A few families have been described with more than one affected family member. These cases helped researchers determine that Sotos syndrome has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is tibial muscular dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is familial pityriasis rubra pilaris inherited ?
Answer: Familial pityriasis rubra pilaris usually has an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Affected individuals usually inherit the condition from one affected parent. However, the condition is said to have incomplete penetrance because not everyone who inherits the altered gene from a parent develops the condition's characteristic skin abnormalities.  The other types of pityriasis rubra pilaris are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is hypochromic microcytic anemia with iron overload inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is congenital cataracts, facial dysmorphism, and neuropathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Costeff syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is thiamine-responsive megaloblastic anemia syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Sheldon-Hall syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In about 50 percent of cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is cholesteryl ester storage disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is congenital diaphragmatic hernia inherited ?
Answer: Isolated congenital diaphragmatic hernia is rarely inherited. In almost all cases, there is only one affected individual in a family.  When congenital diaphragmatic hernia occurs as a feature of a genetic syndrome or chromosomal abnormality, it may cluster in families according to the inheritance pattern for that condition.

Question: Is common variable immune deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of CVID are sporadic and occur in people with no apparent history of the disorder in their family. These cases probably result from a complex interaction of environmental and genetic factors.  In some families, CVID is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  In very rare cases, this condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  When CVID is caused by mutations in the TNFRSF13B gene, it is often sporadic. When TNFRSF13B gene mutations are inherited, they can cause either autosomal dominant CVID or autosomal recessive CVID.  Not all individuals who inherit a gene mutation associated with CVID will develop the disease. In many cases, affected children have an unaffected parent who shares the same mutation. Additional genetic or environmental factors are probably needed for the disorder to occur.

Question: Is juvenile hyaline fibromatosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is infantile-onset ascending hereditary spastic paralysis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism-17 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is acromicric dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: Acromicric dysplasia is an autosomal dominant condition, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In other cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent.

Question: Is chorea-acanthocytosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is cranioectodermal dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is X-linked immunodeficiency with magnesium defect, Epstein-Barr virus infection, and neoplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is aminoacylase 1 deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is mannose-binding lectin deficiency inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of mannose-binding lectin deficiency is unclear. Some reports show that having a disease-associated mutation in one copy of the MBL2 gene in each cell can lead to the condition, while other reports state that a mutation in both copies of the gene is necessary. It is important to note that people inherit an increased risk of developing mannose-binding lectin deficiency, not the condition itself. Not all people who inherit mutations in this gene will develop the condition.

Question: Is infantile systemic hyalinosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is polycythemia vera inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of polycythemia vera are not inherited. This condition is associated with genetic changes that are somatic, which means they are acquired during a person's lifetime and are present only in certain cells.  In rare instances, polycythemia vera has been found to run in families. In some of these families, the risk of developing polycythemia vera appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of developing polycythemia vera, although the cause of this condition in familial cases is unknown. In these families, people seem to inherit an increased risk of polycythemia vera, not the disease itself.

Question: Is autosomal recessive congenital methemoglobinemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hystrix-like ichthyosis with deafness inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is 48,XXYY syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is not inherited; it usually occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm). An error in cell division called nondisjunction results in a reproductive cell with an abnormal number of chromosomes. In 48,XXYY syndrome, the extra sex chromosomes almost always come from a sperm cell. Nondisjunction may cause a sperm cell to gain two extra sex chromosomes, resulting in a sperm cell with three sex chromosomes (one X and two Y chromosomes). If that sperm cell fertilizes a normal egg cell with one X chromosome, the resulting child will have two X chromosomes and two Y chromosomes in each of the body's cells.  In a small percentage of cases, 48,XXYY syndrome results from nondisjunction of the sex chromosomes in a 46,XY embryo very soon after fertilization has occurred. This means that an normal sperm cell with one Y chromosome fertilized a normal egg cell with one X chromosome, but right after fertilization nondisjunction of the sex chromosomes caused the embryo to gain two extra sex chromosomes, resulting in a 48,XXYY embryo.

Question: Is X-linked spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia tarda inherited ?
Answer: X-linked spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia tarda is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The TRAPPC2 gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation must be present in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one mutated copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. She can pass on the altered gene, but usually does not experience signs and symptoms of the disorder. In rare cases, however, females who carry a TRAPPC2 mutation may develop arthritis in early adulthood.

Question: Is Fuchs endothelial dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: In some cases, Fuchs endothelial dystrophy appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. When this condition is caused by a mutation in the COL8A2 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. In addition, an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern is apparent in some situations in which the condition is caused by alterations in an unknown gene.  In many families, the inheritance pattern is unknown.  Some cases result from new mutations in a gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Weyers acrofacial dysostosis inherited ?
Answer: Weyers acrofacial dysostosis is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered EVC or EVC2 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the altered gene from a parent who has the condition.

Question: Is phenylketonuria inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is multiple sclerosis inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of multiple sclerosis is unknown, although the condition does appear to be passed down through generations in families. The risk of developing multiple sclerosis is higher for siblings or children of a person with the condition than for the general population.

Question: Is retinitis pigmentosa inherited ?
Answer: Retinitis pigmentosa often has an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most people with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa have an affected parent and other family members with the disorder.  Retinitis pigmentosa can also have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  This condition can also be inherited in an X-linked pattern. The genes associated with X-linked retinitis pigmentosa are located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females, (who have two X chromosomes), mutations usually have to occur in both copes of the gene to cause the disorder. However, at least 20 percent of females who carry only one mutated copy of the gene develop retinal degeneration and associated vision loss. In most cases, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In 10 to 40 percent of all cases of retinitis pigmentosa, only one person in a family is affected. In these families, the disorder is described as simplex. It can be difficult to determine the inheritance pattern of simplex cases because affected individuals may have no affected relatives or may be unaware of other family members with the disease. Simplex cases can also result from a new gene mutation that is not present in other family members.

Question: Is Stormorken syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Down syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Down syndrome are not inherited. When the condition is caused by trisomy 21, the chromosomal abnormality occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells in a parent. The abnormality usually occurs in egg cells, but it occasionally occurs in sperm cells. An error in cell division called nondisjunction results in a reproductive cell with an abnormal number of chromosomes. For example, an egg or sperm cell may gain an extra copy of chromosome 21. If one of these atypical reproductive cells contributes to the genetic makeup of a child, the child will have an extra chromosome 21 in each of the body's cells.  People with translocation Down syndrome can inherit the condition from an unaffected parent. The parent carries a rearrangement of genetic material between chromosome 21 and another chromosome. This rearrangement is called a balanced translocation. No genetic material is gained or lost in a balanced translocation, so these chromosomal changes usually do not cause any health problems. However, as this translocation is passed to the next generation, it can become unbalanced. People who inherit an unbalanced translocation involving chromosome 21 may have extra genetic material from chromosome 21, which causes Down syndrome.  Like trisomy 21, mosaic Down syndrome is not inherited. It occurs as a random event during cell division early in fetal development. As a result, some of the body's cells have the usual two copies of chromosome 21, and other cells have three copies of this chromosome.

Question: Is desmosterolosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Kufs disease inherited ?
Answer: Kufs disease type A, caused by mutations in the CLN6 or PPT1 gene, has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Kufs disease type B, caused by mutations in the DNAJC5 or CTSF gene, has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases of Kufs disease type B occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is COG5-congenital disorder of glycosylation inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is nephronophthisis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is familial adenomatous polyposis inherited ?
Answer: Familial adenomatous polyposis can have different inheritance patterns.  When familial adenomatous polyposis results from mutations in the APC gene, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.  When familial adenomatous polyposis results from mutations in the MUTYH gene, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is carnitine palmitoyltransferase II deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is X-linked thrombocytopenia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell may or may not cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. In most cases of X-linked inheritance, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is hereditary cerebral amyloid angiopathy inherited ?
Answer: Hereditary cerebral amyloid angiopathy caused by mutations in the APP, CST3, or ITM2B gene is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  There is also a non-hereditary form of cerebral amyloid angiopathy that occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family. The cause of this form of the condition is unknown. These cases are described as sporadic and are not inherited.

Question: Is glycogen storage disease type III inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is van der Woude syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition. Occasionally, an individual who has a copy of the altered gene does not show any signs or symptoms of the disorder.

Question: Is benign familial neonatal seizures inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. A few cases result from new mutations in the KCNQ2 gene. These cases occur in people with no history of benign familial neonatal seizures in their family.

Question: Is Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy can have several different patterns of inheritance. When this condition is caused by mutations in the EMD gene, it is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation typically must be present in both copies of the EMD gene to cause X-linked Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy. Females who carry one altered copy of the EMD gene usually do not experience the muscle weakness and wasting that are characteristic of this condition. In some cases, however, they may experience heart problems associated with this disorder.  Other cases of Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy result from mutations in the LMNA gene and are considered to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. About 75 percent of autosomal dominant Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy cases are caused by new mutations in the LMNA gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In the remaining cases, people with this form of the condition inherit the altered LMNA gene from an affected parent.  Rarely, LMNA gene mutations can cause a form of Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy that is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. Autosomal recessive inheritance means two copies of the gene in each cell are altered. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive disorder are carriers of one copy of the altered gene but do not show signs and symptoms of the disorder.

Question: Is 16p11.2 deletion syndrome inherited ?
Answer: 16p11.2 deletion syndrome is considered to have an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern because a deletion in one copy of chromosome 16 in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. However, most cases of 16p11.2 deletion syndrome are not inherited. The deletion occurs most often as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) or in early fetal development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family, although they can pass the condition to their children. Several examples of inherited 16p11.2 deletion have been reported. In inherited cases, other family members may be affected as well.

Question: Is early-onset glaucoma inherited ?
Answer: Early-onset glaucoma can have different inheritance patterns. Primary congenital glaucoma is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Juvenile open-angle glaucoma is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some families, primary congenital glaucoma may also be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern.

Question: Is very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is familial HDL deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Familial HDL deficiency is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means an alteration in one copy of either the ABCA1 or the APOA1 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. People with alterations in both copies of the ABCA1 gene develop the related disorder Tangier disease.

Question: Is intrauterine growth restriction, metaphyseal dysplasia, adrenal hypoplasia congenita, and genital anomalies inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance of IMAGe syndrome is complex. The condition is described as having an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern because one copy of the altered CDKN1C gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. However, because this gene is paternally imprinted, IMAGe syndrome results only when the mutation is present on the maternally inherited copy of the gene. When a mutation affects the paternally inherited copy of the CDKN1C gene, it does not cause health problems. Therefore, IMAGe syndrome is passed only from mothers to their children.

Question: Is distal hereditary motor neuropathy, type II inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is primary hyperoxaluria inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hereditary angiopathy with nephropathy, aneurysms, and muscle cramps syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is African iron overload inherited ?
Answer: African iron overload seems to run in families, and high iron in a family's diet seems to be the major contributor to development of the condition. There also may be a genetic contribution, but the inheritance pattern is unknown. People with a specific variation in the SLC40A1 gene may inherit an increased risk of this condition, but not the condition itself. Not all people with this condition have the variation in the gene, and not all people with the variation will develop the disorder.

Question: Is hereditary multiple osteochondromas inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Partington syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. Females with one altered copy of the gene may have some signs and symptoms related to the condition. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is congenital deafness with labyrinthine aplasia, microtia, and microdontia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is myosin storage myopathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is citrullinemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is ophthalmo-acromelic syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is spastic paraplegia type 2 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Because females have two copies of the X chromosome, one altered copy of the gene in each cell usually leads to less severe symptoms in females than in males, or may cause no symptoms at all. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one altered copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. She can pass on the gene, but generally does not experience signs and symptoms of the disorder. Some females who carry a PLP1 mutation, however, may experience muscle stiffness and a decrease in intellectual function. Females with one PLP1 mutation have an increased risk of experiencing progressive deterioration of cognitive functions (dementia) later in life.

Question: Is 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria inherited ?
Answer: D-2-HGA type I, L-2-HGA, and combined D,L-2-HGA all have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  D-2-HGA type II is considered an autosomal dominant disorder because one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. The disorder typically results from a new mutation in the IDH2 gene and occurs in people with no history of the condition in their family.

Question: Is Robinow syndrome inherited ?
Answer: As discussed above, Robinow syndrome can have either an autosomal recessive or an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.  Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases of Robinow syndrome, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is tubular aggregate myopathy inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of tubular aggregate myopathy, including those caused by STIM1 gene mutations, are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, the mutation is passed through generations in a family. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Rarely, tubular aggregate myopathy is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Researchers are still working to determine which gene or genes are associated with autosomal recessive tubular aggregate myopathy.

Question: Is arginine:glycine amidinotransferase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Tangier disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is prekallikrein deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is congenital generalized lipodystrophy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is myoclonic epilepsy with ragged-red fibers inherited ?
Answer: MERRF is inherited in a mitochondrial pattern, which is also known as maternal inheritance. This pattern of inheritance applies to genes contained in mtDNA. Because egg cells, but not sperm cells, contribute mitochondria to the developing embryo, children can only inherit disorders resulting from mtDNA mutations from their mother. These disorders can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females, but fathers do not pass traits associated with changes in mtDNA to their children.  In most cases, people with MERRF inherit an altered mitochondrial gene from their mother, who may or may not show symptoms of the disorder. Less commonly, the disorder results from a new mutation in a mitochondrial gene and occurs in people with no family history of MERRF.

Question: Is multiminicore disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is episodic ataxia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency can have different inheritance patterns. When the condition is caused by mutations in the PDHA1 gene, it is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The PDHA1 gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would usually have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. However, in pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency, one altered copy of the PDHA1 gene is sufficient to cause the disorder, because the X chromosome with the normal copy of the PDHA1 gene is turned off through a process called X-inactivation.  Early in embryonic development in females, one of the two X chromosomes is permanently inactivated in somatic cells (cells other than egg and sperm cells). X-inactivation ensures that females, like males, have only one active copy of the X chromosome in each body cell. Usually X-inactivation occurs randomly, such that each X chromosome is active in about half of the body cells. Sometimes X-inactivation is not random, and one X chromosome is active in more than half of cells. When X-inactivation does not occur randomly, it is called skewed X-inactivation.  Research shows that females with pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency caused by mutation of the PDHA1 gene have skewed X-inactivation, which results in the inactivation of the X chromosome with the normal copy of the PDHA1 gene in most cells of the body. This skewed X-inactivation causes the chromosome with the mutated PDHA1 gene to be expressed in more than half of cells.  When caused by mutations in the other associated genes, pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is phosphoglycerate mutase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the PGAM2 gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. However, people who carry one altered copy of the PGAM2 gene may have some features of phosphoglycerate mutase deficiency, including episodes of exercise-induced muscle cramping and myoglobinuria.

Question: Is Lenz microphthalmia syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is Prader-Willi syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Prader-Willi syndrome are not inherited, particularly those caused by a deletion in the paternal chromosome 15 or by maternal uniparental disomy. These genetic changes occur as random events during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) or in early embryonic development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family.  Rarely, a genetic change responsible for Prader-Willi syndrome can be inherited. For example, it is possible for a genetic change that abnormally inactivates genes on the paternal chromosome 15 to be passed from one generation to the next.

Question: Is Parkinson disease inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Parkinson disease occur in people with no apparent family history of the disorder. These sporadic cases may not be inherited, or they may have an inheritance pattern that is unknown.  Among familial cases of Parkinson disease, the inheritance pattern differs depending on the gene that is altered. If the LRRK2 or SNCA gene is involved, the disorder is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.  If the PARK2, PARK7, or PINK1 gene is involved, Parkinson disease is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. This type of inheritance means that two copies of the gene in each cell are altered. Most often, the parents of an individual with autosomal recessive Parkinson disease each carry one copy of the altered gene but do not show signs and symptoms of the disorder.  When genetic alterations modify the risk of developing Parkinson disease, the inheritance pattern is usually unknown.

Question: Is alpha thalassemia X-linked intellectual disability syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The ATRX gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), one working copy of the ATRX gene can usually compensate for the mutated copy. Therefore, females who carry a single mutated ATRX gene almost never have signs of alpha thalassemia X-linked intellectual disability syndrome.  A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome are sporadic, which means that they occur in people with no apparent history of the disorder in their family. Less than 20 percent of all cases have been reported to run in families. When the disorder is familial, it can have an autosomal dominant or an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.  Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. However, most people with the autosomal dominant form of atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome have no history of the disorder in their family. Because not everyone who inherits a gene mutation will develop the signs and symptoms of the disease, an affected individual may have unaffected relatives who carry a copy of the mutation.  Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is ALG1-congenital disorder of glycosylation inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is intestinal pseudo-obstruction inherited ?
Answer: Intestinal pseudo-obstruction is often not inherited. When it does run in families, it can have different inheritance patterns.  Intestinal pseudo-obstruction caused by FLNA gene mutations is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The FLNA gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  Intestinal pseudo-obstruction can also be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In other families it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. When intestinal pseudo-obstruction is inherited in an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive pattern, the genetic cause of the disorder is unknown.  When intestinal pseudo-obstruction is a feature of MNGIE disease, it is inherited in a mitochondrial pattern, which is also known as maternal inheritance. This pattern of inheritance applies to genes contained in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). Because egg cells, but not sperm cells, contribute mitochondria to the developing embryo, children can only inherit disorders resulting from mtDNA mutations from their mother. These disorders can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females, but fathers do not pass traits associated with changes in mtDNA to their children.  In some cases, the inheritance pattern is unknown.

Question: Is autosomal recessive axonal neuropathy with neuromyotonia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is ataxia-telangiectasia inherited ?
Answer: Ataxia-telangiectasia is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the ATM gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  About 1 percent of the United States population carries one mutated copy and one normal copy of the ATM gene in each cell. These individuals are called carriers. Although ATM mutation carriers do not have ataxia-telangiectasia, they are more likely than people without an ATM mutation to develop cancer; female carriers are particularly at risk for developing breast cancer. Carriers of a mutation in the ATM gene also may have an increased risk of heart disease.

Question: Is choroideremia inherited ?
Answer: Choroideremia is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The CHM gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation must be present in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one mutated copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. She can pass on the altered gene, but usually does not experience signs and symptoms of the disorder. Females who carry a CHM mutation may show small areas of cell loss within the retina that can be observed during a thorough eye examination. These changes can impair vision later in life.

Question: Is pulmonary veno-occlusive disease inherited ?
Answer: When caused by mutations in the EIF2AK4 gene, PVOD is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  In contrast, when caused by mutations in another gene, the condition can have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In these cases, one parent of an affected individual typically has increased blood pressure in the vessels of the lungs.

Question: Is 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is distal arthrogryposis type 1 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In many cases, a person with distal arthrogryposis type 1 has a parent and other close family members with the condition.

Question: Is Saethre-Chotzen syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases may result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Some people with a TWIST1 mutation do not have any of the obvious features of Saethre-Chotzen syndrome. These people are still at risk of passing on the gene mutation and may have a child with craniosynostosis and the other typical signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is mucolipidosis III gamma inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is neonatal onset multisystem inflammatory disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In almost all cases, NOMID results from new mutations. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A few cases have been reported in which an affected person has inherited the mutation from one affected parent.

Question: Is Ewing sarcoma inherited ?
Answer: This condition is generally not inherited but arises from a mutation in the body's cells that occurs after conception. This alteration is called a somatic mutation.

Question: Is otopalatodigital syndrome type 1 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. In most cases, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is autoimmune Addison disease inherited ?
Answer: A predisposition to develop autoimmune Addison disease is passed through generations in families, but the inheritance pattern is unknown.

Question: Is Gorlin syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Gorlin syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the PTCH1 gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Having one mutated copy of the PTCH1 gene in each cell is enough to cause the features of Gorlin syndrome that are present early in life, including macrocephaly and skeletal abnormalities. For basal cell carcinomas and other tumors to develop, a mutation in the second copy of the PTCH1 gene must also occur in certain cells during the person's lifetime. Most people who are born with one PTCH1 gene mutation eventually acquire a second mutation in some cells and consequently develop various types of tumors.

Question: Is familial hemiplegic migraine inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, affected individuals have one affected parent. However, some people who inherit an altered gene never develop features of familial hemiplegic migraine. (This situation is known as reduced penetrance.) A related condition, sporadic hemiplegic migraine, has identical signs and symptoms but occurs in individuals with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is protein S deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Protein S deficiency is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one altered copy of the PROS1 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause mild protein S deficiency. Individuals who inherit two altered copies of this gene in each cell have severe protein S deficiency.

Question: Is narcolepsy inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of narcolepsy are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A small percentage of all cases have been reported to run in families; however, the condition does not have a clear pattern of inheritance. First-degree relatives (parents, siblings, and children) of people with narcolepsy with cataplexy have a 40 times greater risk of developing the condition compared with people in the general population.

Question: Is Troyer syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type II inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is genitopatellar syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition has an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. All reported cases have resulted from new mutations in the gene and have occurred in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is amyotrophic lateral sclerosis inherited ?
Answer: About 90 to 95 percent of ALS cases are sporadic, which means they are not inherited.  An estimated 5 to 10 percent of ALS is familial and caused by mutations in one of several genes. The pattern of inheritance varies depending on the gene involved. Most cases are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition. Some people who inherit a familial genetic mutation known to cause ALS never develop features of the condition. (This situation is known as reduced penetrance.) It is unclear why some people with a mutated gene develop the disease and other people with a mutated gene do not.  Less frequently, ALS is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Because an affected person's parents are not affected, autosomal recessive ALS is often mistaken for sporadic ALS even though it is caused by a familial genetic mutation.  Very rarely, ALS is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. X-linked conditions occur when the gene associated with the condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. In most cases, males tend to develop the disease earlier and have a decreased life expectancy compared with females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is giant congenital melanocytic nevus inherited ?
Answer: This condition is generally not inherited but arises from a mutation in the body's cells that occurs after conception. This alteration is called a somatic mutation. A somatic mutation in one copy of the NRAS or BRAF gene is sufficient to cause this disorder.

Question: Is cartilage-hair hypoplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Buschke-Ollendorff syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In many cases, an affected person has a parent and other family members with the condition. While most people with Buschke-Ollendorff syndrome have both connective tissue nevi and osteopoikilosis, some affected families include individuals who have the skin abnormalities alone or the bone abnormalities alone. When osteopoikilosis occurs without connective tissue nevi, the condition is often called isolated osteopoikilosis.

Question: Is granulomatosis with polyangiitis inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of GPA is unknown. Most instances are sporadic and occur in individuals with no history of the disorder in their family. Only rarely is more than one member of the same family affected by the disorder.

Question: Is SLC4A1-associated distal renal tubular acidosis inherited ?
Answer: SLC4A1-associated distal renal tubular acidosis can have different patterns of inheritance. It is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered SLC4A1 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Less commonly, SLC4A1-associated distal renal tubular acidosis has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means a mutation must occur in both copies of the SLC4A1 gene for the condition to develop. This pattern occurs with certain types of SLC4A1 gene mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is infantile-onset spinocerebellar ataxia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is androgenetic alopecia inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of androgenetic alopecia is unclear because many genetic and environmental factors are likely to be involved. This condition tends to cluster in families, however, and having a close relative with patterned hair loss appears to be a risk factor for developing the condition.

Question: Is adolescent idiopathic scoliosis inherited ?
Answer: Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis can be sporadic, which means it occurs in people without a family history of the condition, or it can cluster in families. The inheritance pattern of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis is unclear because many genetic and environmental factors appear to be involved. However, having a close relative (such as a parent or sibling) with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis increases a child's risk of developing the condition.

Question: Is polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is aromatase excess syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means a genetic rearrangement involving one copy of the CYP19A1 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new genetic changes and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is juvenile primary lateral sclerosis inherited ?
Answer: When caused by mutations in the ALS2 gene, juvenile primary lateral sclerosis is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is myasthenia gravis inherited ?
Answer: In most cases, myasthenia gravis is not inherited and occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family. About 3 to 5 percent of affected individuals have other family members with myasthenia gravis or other autoimmune disorders, but the inheritance pattern is unknown.

Question: Is familial isolated pituitary adenoma inherited ?
Answer: FIPA is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. However, only 20 to 30 percent of individuals with an AIP gene mutation develop a pituitary adenoma. This phenomenon, in which some individuals with a mutation do not develop the features of a particular disorder, is called incomplete penetrance.

Question: Is dopamine beta-hydroxylase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is holocarboxylase synthetase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is multiple familial trichoepithelioma inherited ?
Answer: Susceptibility to multiple familial trichoepithelioma has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell increases the risk of developing this condition. However, a second, non-inherited mutation is required for development of skin appendage tumors in this disorder.

Question: Is myoclonic epilepsy myopathy sensory ataxia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Salih myopathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is keratoderma with woolly hair inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of keratoderma with woolly hair have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they usually do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is progressive osseous heteroplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  People normally inherit one copy of each gene from their mother and one copy from their father. For most genes, both copies are active, or "turned on," in all cells. For a small subset of genes, however, only one of the two copies is active. For some of these genes, only the copy inherited from a person's father (the paternal copy) is active, while for other genes, only the copy inherited from a person's mother (the maternal copy) is active. These differences in gene activation based on the gene's parent of origin are caused by a phenomenon called genomic imprinting.  The GNAS gene has a complex genomic imprinting pattern. In some cells of the body the maternal copy of the gene is active, while in others the paternal copy is active. Progressive osseous heteroplasia occurs when mutations affect the paternal copy of the gene.

Question: Is Miller-Dieker syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Miller-Dieker syndrome are not inherited. The deletion occurs most often as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family.  When Miller-Dieker syndrome is inherited, its inheritance pattern is considered autosomal dominant because a deletion in one copy of chromosome 17 in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. About 12 percent of people with Miller-Dieker syndrome inherit a chromosome abnormality from an unaffected parent. In these cases, the parent carries a chromosomal rearrangement called a balanced translocation, in which no genetic material is gained or lost. Balanced translocations usually do not cause any health problems; however, they can become unbalanced as they are passed to the next generation. Children who inherit an unbalanced translocation can have a chromosomal rearrangement with extra or missing genetic material. Individuals with Miller-Dieker syndrome who inherit an unbalanced translocation are missing genetic material from the short arm of chromosome 17, which results in the health problems characteristic of this disorder.

Question: Is congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hypochondrogenesis inherited ?
Answer: Hypochondrogenesis is considered an autosomal dominant disorder because one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. It is caused by new mutations in the COL2A1 gene and occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family. This condition is not passed on to the next generation because affected individuals do not live long enough to have children.

Question: Is Krabbe disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is septo-optic dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: Septo-optic dysplasia is usually sporadic, which means that the condition typically occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Less commonly, septo-optic dysplasia has been found to run in families. Most familial cases appear to have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means that both copies of an associated gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. In a few affected families, the disorder has had an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition.

Question: Is spondylothoracic dysostosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is familial osteochondritis dissecans inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.

Question: Is sensorineural deafness and male infertility inherited ?
Answer: Sensorineural deafness and male infertility is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of chromosome 15 in each cell have a deletion. The parents of an individual with sensorineural deafness and male infertility each carry one copy of the chromosome 15 deletion, but they do not show symptoms of the condition.  Males with two chromosome 15 deletions in each cell have sensorineural deafness and infertility. Females with two chromosome 15 deletions in each cell have sensorineural deafness as their only symptom because the CATSPER2 gene deletions affect sperm function, and women do not produce sperm.

Question: Is Unverricht-Lundborg disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Bietti crystalline dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Pallister-Killian mosaic syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Pallister-Killian mosaic syndrome is not inherited. The chromosomal change responsible for the disorder typically occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) in a parent of the affected individual, usually the mother. Affected individuals have no history of the disorder in their families.  An error in cell division called nondisjunction likely results in a reproductive cell containing an isochromosome 12p. If this atypical reproductive cell contributes to the genetic makeup of a child, the child will have two normal copies of chromosome 12 along with an isochromosome 12p.  As cells divide during early development, some cells lose the isochromosome 12p, while other cells retain the abnormal chromosome. This situation is called mosaicism. Almost all cases of Pallister-Killian mosaic syndrome are caused by mosaicism for an isochromosome 12p. If all of the body's cells contained the isochromosome, the resulting syndrome would probably not be compatible with life.

Question: Is central core disease inherited ?
Answer: Central core disease is most often inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases may result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Less commonly, central core disease is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. People who carry one mutated copy of the RYR1 gene, however, may be at increased risk for malignant hyperthermia.

Question: Is Naegeli-Franceschetti-Jadassohn syndrome/dermatopathia pigmentosa reticularis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Fanconi anemia inherited ?
Answer: Fanconi anemia is most often inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Very rarely, this condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with X-linked recessive Fanconi anemia is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is 18q deletion syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of 18q deletion syndrome are not inherited. The deletion occurs most often as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family.  In some cases, 18q deletion syndrome is inherited, usually from a mildly affected parent. The deletion can also be inherited from an unaffected parent who carries a chromosomal rearrangement called a balanced translocation, in which no genetic material is gained or lost. Individuals with a balanced translocation do not usually have any related health problems; however, the translocation can become unbalanced as it is passed to the next generation. Children who inherit an unbalanced translocation can have a chromosomal rearrangement with extra or missing genetic material. Individuals with 18q deletion syndrome who inherit an unbalanced translocation are missing genetic material from the long arm of chromosome 18, which results in the signs and symptoms of this disorder.

Question: Is X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy inherited ?
Answer: X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy is inherited in an X-linked pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes in each cell. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the ABCD1 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy. Because females have two copies of the X chromosome, one altered copy of the ABCD1 gene in each cell usually does not cause any features of X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy; however, some females with one altered copy of the gene have health problems associated with this disorder. The signs and symptoms of X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy tend to appear at a later age in females than in males. Affected women usually develop features of the adrenomyeloneuropathy type.

Question: Is familial restrictive cardiomyopathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is nail-patella syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Nail-patella syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases may result from new mutations in the LMX1B gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Fraser syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Mayer-Rokitansky-Kster-Hauser syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of MRKH syndrome occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Less often, MRKH syndrome is passed through generations in families. Its inheritance pattern is usually unclear because the signs and symptoms of the condition frequently vary among affected individuals in the same family. However, in some families, the condition appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is typically sufficient to cause the disorder, although no genes have been associated with MRKH syndrome.

Question: Is Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is spondylocarpotarsal synostosis syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Spondylocarpotarsal synostosis syndrome caused by FLNB gene mutations is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  In a few individuals with signs and symptoms similar to those of spondylocarpotarsal synostosis syndrome but without FLNB gene mutations, the condition appears to have been inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. Autosomal dominant means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is nonsyndromic paraganglioma inherited ?
Answer: Nonsyndromic paraganglioma can be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of developing a paraganglioma or pheochromocytoma. People with mutations in the gene inherit an increased risk of this condition, not the condition itself. Not all people with this condition have a mutation in the gene, and not all people with a gene mutation will develop the disorder.  Most cases of nonsyndromic paraganglioma and pheochromocytoma are considered sporadic, which means the tumors occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is hypomagnesemia with secondary hypocalcemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is tetrasomy 18p inherited ?
Answer: Tetrasomy 18p is usually not inherited. The chromosomal change responsible for the disorder typically occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) in a parent of the affected individual, usually the mother. Most affected individuals have no history of the disorder in their family. However, rare inherited cases of tetrasomy 18p have been reported.

Question: Is spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.  As the altered ATXN3 gene is passed down from one generation to the next, the length of the CAG trinucleotide repeat often increases. A larger number of repeats is usually associated with an earlier onset of signs and symptoms. This phenomenon is called anticipation. Anticipation tends to be more prominent when the ATXN3 gene is inherited from a person's father (paternal inheritance) than when it is inherited from a person's mother (maternal inheritance).  In rare cases, individuals have been reported with expanded CAG repeats on both copies of the ATXN3 gene in each cell. These people have more severe signs and symptoms than people with only one mutation, and features of the condition appear in childhood.

Question: Is inherited thyroxine-binding globulin deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Inherited thyroxine-binding globulin deficiency has an X-linked pattern of inheritance. The SERPINA7 gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes.  In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes partial or complete inherited thyroxine-binding globulin deficiency. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell reduces the amount of thyroxine-binding globulin. However, their levels of this protein are usually within the normal range.  A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is lysinuric protein intolerance inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Marfan syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  At least 25 percent of Marfan syndrome cases result from a new mutation in the FBN1 gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis are sporadic; they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Familial pulmonary fibrosis appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. However, some people who inherit the altered gene never develop features of familial pulmonary fibrosis. (This situation is known as reduced penetrance.) It is unclear why some people with a mutated gene develop the disease and other people with the mutated gene do not.

Question: Is Blau syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Blau syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most affected individuals have one parent with the condition.  In some cases, people with the characteristic features of Blau syndrome do not have a family history of the condition. Some researchers believe that these individuals have a non-inherited version of the disorder called early-onset sarcoidosis.

Question: Is McKusick-Kaufman syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Caffey disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is usually sufficient to cause the disorder. About 20 percent of people who have the mutation that causes Caffey disease do not experience its signs or symptoms; this phenomenon is called incomplete penetrance.  In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation that causes Caffey disease from a parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is argininosuccinic aciduria inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is familial dysautonomia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Dandy-Walker malformation inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Dandy-Walker malformation are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A small percentage of cases seem to run in families; however, Dandy-Walker malformation does not have a clear pattern of inheritance. Multiple genetic and environmental factors likely play a part in determining the risk of developing this disorder. First-degree relatives (such as siblings and children) of people with Dandy-Walker malformation have an increased risk of developing the condition compared with people in the general population.  When Dandy-Walker malformation is a feature of a genetic condition, it is inherited in the pattern of that condition.

Question: Is Danon disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. In most cases, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is craniometaphyseal dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: Craniometaphyseal dysplasia can have different inheritance patterns. In most cases this condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one altered copy of the ANKH gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Individuals with autosomal dominant craniometaphyseal dysplasia typically have one parent who also has the condition. Less often, cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Rarely, craniometaphyseal dysplasia is suspected to have autosomal recessive inheritance when unaffected parents have more than one child with the condition. Autosomal recessive disorders are caused by mutations in both copies of a gene in each cell. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of a mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the disorder.

Question: Is Waldenstrm macroglobulinemia inherited ?
Answer: Waldenstrm macroglobulinemia is usually not inherited, and most affected people have no history of the disorder in their family. The condition usually arises from mutations that are acquired during a person's lifetime (somatic mutations), which are not inherited.  Some families seem to have a predisposition to the condition. Approximately 20 percent of people with Waldenstrm macroglobulinemia have a family member with the condition or another disorder involving abnormal B cells.

Question: Is Ghosal hematodiaphyseal dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is 15q13.3 microdeletion inherited ?
Answer: 15q13.3 microdeletion is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the deleted region on chromosome 15 in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of intellectual disability and other characteristic features.  In about 75 percent of cases, individuals with 15q13.3 microdeletion inherit the chromosomal change from a parent. In the remaining cases, 15q13.3 microdeletion occurs in people whose parents do not carry the chromosomal change. In these individuals, the deletion occurs most often as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) or in early fetal development.

Question: Is phosphoribosylpyrophosphate synthetase superactivity inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell sometimes causes the disorder.  In most reported cases, affected individuals have inherited the mutation from a parent who carries an altered copy of the PRPS1 gene. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons. PRS superactivity may also result from new mutations in the PRPS1 gene and can occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Langer mesomelic dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: Langer mesomelic dysplasia has a pseudoautosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. The SHOX gene is located on both the X and Y chromosomes (sex chromosomes) in an area known as the pseudoautosomal region. Although many genes are unique to either the X or Y chromosome, genes in the pseudoautosomal region are present on both sex chromosomes. As a result, both females (who have two X chromosomes) and males (who have one X and one Y chromosome) normally have two functional copies of the SHOX gene in each cell. The inheritance pattern of Langer mesomelic dysplasia is described as recessive because both copies of the SHOX gene in each cell must be missing or altered to cause the disorder. In females, the condition results when the gene is missing or altered on both copies of the X chromosome; in males, it results when the gene is missing or altered on the X chromosome and the Y chromosome.  A related skeletal disorder called Lri-Weill dyschondrosteosis occurs when one copy of the SHOX gene is mutated in each cell. This disorder has signs and symptoms that are similar to, but typically less severe than, those of Langer mesomelic dysplasia.

Question: Is Ochoa syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is 5-alpha reductase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the SRD5A2 gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Although people who are genetically female (with two X chromosomes in each cell) may inherit mutations in both copies of the SRD5A2 gene, their sexual development is not affected. The development of female sex characteristics does not require DHT, so a lack of steroid 5-alpha reductase 2 activity does not cause physical changes in these individuals. Only people who have mutations in both copies of the SRD5A2 gene and are genetically male (with one X and one Y chromosome in each cell) have the characteristic signs of 5-alpha reductase deficiency.

Question: Is Pendred syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is neurofibromatosis type 2 inherited ?
Answer: Neurofibromatosis type 2 is considered to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. People with this condition are born with one mutated copy of the NF2 gene in each cell. In about half of cases, the altered gene is inherited from an affected parent. The remaining cases result from new mutations in the NF2 gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Unlike most other autosomal dominant conditions, in which one altered copy of a gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder, two copies of the NF2 gene must be altered to trigger tumor formation in neurofibromatosis type 2. A mutation in the second copy of the NF2 gene occurs in Schwann cells or other cells in the nervous system during a person's lifetime. Almost everyone who is born with one NF2 mutation acquires a second mutation (known as a somatic mutation) in these cells and develops the tumors characteristic of neurofibromatosis type 2.

Question: Is mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the TYMP gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is corticosteroid-binding globulin deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is reported to have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. However, some people with only one SERPINA6 gene mutation may have symptoms such as fatigue or chronic pain. Alternatively, individuals with two SERPINA6 gene mutations may not have any features of the disorder. It is unclear why some people with mutations have features of the disorder and others do not.

Question: Is iron-refractory iron deficiency anemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is thiopurine S-methyltransferase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: The activity of the TPMT enzyme is inherited in a pattern described as autosomal codominant. Codominance means that two different versions of the gene are active (expressed), and both versions influence the genetic trait.  The TPMT gene can be classified as either low-activity or high-activity. When the gene is altered in a way that impairs the activity of the TPMT enzyme, it is described as low-activity. When the gene is unaltered and TPMT activity is normal, it is described as high-activity. Because two copies of the gene are present in each cell, each person can have two low-activity copies, one low-activity copy and one high-activity copy, or two high-activity copies.  People with two low-activity copies of the TPMT gene in each cell have TPMT deficiency and are at the greatest risk of developing hematopoietic toxicity when treated with thiopurine drugs unless they are given much less than the usual dose. People with one high-activity copy and one low-activity copy have moderately reduced enzyme activity and are also at increased risk of this complication unless given a significantly lower dose of the drug. People with two high-activity copies have normal TPMT activity and do not have an increased risk of hematopoietic toxicity with thiopurine drug treatment.

Question: Is progressive external ophthalmoplegia inherited ?
Answer: Progressive external ophthalmoplegia can have different inheritance patterns depending on the gene involved.  When this condition is caused by mutations in the MT-TL1 gene, it is inherited in a mitochondrial pattern, which is also known as maternal inheritance. This pattern of inheritance applies to genes contained in mtDNA. Because egg cells, but not sperm cells, contribute mitochondria to the developing embryo, children can only inherit disorders resulting from mtDNA mutations from their mother. These disorders can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females, but fathers do not pass traits associated with changes in mtDNA to their children.  When the nuclear genes POLG, SLC25A4, or C10orf2 are involved, progressive external ophthalmoplegia is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  Certain mutations in the POLG gene can also cause a form of the condition that is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Some mutations in the POLG gene that cause progressive external ophthalmoplegia occur during a person's lifetime and are not inherited. These genetic changes are called somatic mutations.

Question: Is alveolar capillary dysplasia with misalignment of pulmonary veins inherited ?
Answer: ACD/MPV is usually not inherited, and most affected people have no history of the disorder in their family. The genetic changes associated with this condition usually occur during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) or in early fetal development. When the condition is caused by a FOXF1 gene mutation or deletion, one altered or missing gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Individuals with ACD/MPV do not pass the genetic change on to their children because they do not live long enough to reproduce.  A few families have been identified in which more than one sibling has ACD/MPV. It is not clear how ACD/MPV is inherited in these families because no genetic changes have been identified.

Question: Is diastrophic dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is primary carnitine deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Primary carnitine deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive disorder are carriers, which means they each carry one copy of the mutated gene. Carriers of SLC22A5 gene mutations may have some signs and symptoms related to the condition.

Question: Is multiple sulfatase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is inclusion body myopathy 2 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is lactate dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Kallmann syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Kallmann syndrome 1 (caused by ANOS1 gene mutations) has an X-linked recessive pattern of inheritance. The ANOS1 gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation must be present in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  Most cases of Kallmann syndrome 1 are described as simplex, which means only one person in a family is affected. Some affected people inherit a ANOS1 gene mutation from their mothers, who carry a single mutated copy of the gene in each cell. Other people have the condition as a result of a new mutation in the ANOS1 gene.  Other forms of Kallmann syndrome can be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  In several families, Kallmann syndrome has shown an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Bardet-Biedl syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Bardet-Biedl syndrome is typically inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of a BBS gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is popliteal pterygium syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is white sponge nevus inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell can be sufficient to cause the disorder. However, some people who have a mutation that causes white sponge nevus do not develop these abnormal growths; this phenomenon is called reduced penetrance.

Question: Is Maffucci syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Maffucci syndrome is not inherited. The mutations that cause this disorder are somatic, which means they occur during a person's lifetime. A somatic mutation occurs in a single cell. As that cell continues to grow and divide, the cells derived from it also have the same mutation. In Maffucci syndrome, the mutation is thought to occur in a cell during early development before birth; cells that arise from that abnormal cell have the mutation, while the body's other cells do not. This situation is called mosaicism.

Question: Is hereditary antithrombin deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Hereditary antithrombin deficiency is typically inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one altered copy of the SERPINC1 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Inheriting two altered copies of this gene in each cell is usually incompatible with life; however, a few severely affected individuals have been reported with mutations in both copies of the SERPINC1 gene in each cell.

Question: Is glycogen storage disease type V inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is COL4A1-related brain small-vessel disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition. Rarely, new mutations in the gene occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Canavan disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Brugada syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition. Other cases may result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Ohdo syndrome, Say-Barber-Biesecker-Young-Simpson variant inherited ?
Answer: This condition has an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Almost all reported cases have resulted from new mutations in the gene and have occurred in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is X-linked juvenile retinoschisis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is bradyopsia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Stargardt macular degeneration inherited ?
Answer: Stargardt macular degeneration can have different inheritance patterns.  When mutations in the ABCA4 gene cause this condition, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  When this condition is caused by mutations in the ELOVL4 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is essential pentosuria inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is leptin receptor deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Loeys-Dietz syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Loeys-Dietz syndrome is considered to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In about 75 percent of cases, this disorder results from a new gene mutation and occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In other cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent.

Question: Is nephrogenic diabetes insipidus inherited ?
Answer: When nephrogenic diabetes insipidus results from mutations in the AVPR2 gene, the condition has an X-linked recessive pattern of inheritance. The AVPR2 gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation usually has to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. However, some females who carry a single mutated copy of the AVPR2 gene have features of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, including polyuria and polydipsia. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  When nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is caused by mutations in the AQP2 gene, it can have either an autosomal recessive or, less commonly, an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. In autosomal recessive inheritance, both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. In autosomal dominant inheritance, one mutated copy of the AQP2 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is leukoencephalopathy with brainstem and spinal cord involvement and lactate elevation inherited ?
Answer: LBSL is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. In this condition, each copy of the gene carries a different mutation (compound heterozygous mutations). An affected individual never has the same mutation in both copies of the gene (a homozygous mutation). The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Waardenburg syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Waardenburg syndrome is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition. A small percentage of cases result from new mutations in the gene; these cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Some cases of type II and type IV Waardenburg syndrome appear to have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is glutaric acidemia type I inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases caused by mutations in the WNK1, WNK4, or KLHL3 gene, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. While some cases caused by CUL3 gene mutations can be inherited from an affected parent, many result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Some cases caused by mutations in the KLHL3 gene are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is nonsyndromic hearing loss inherited ?
Answer: As discussed above, nonsyndromic hearing loss has different patterns of inheritance. Between 75 and 80 percent of cases are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Usually, each parent of an individual with autosomal recessive hearing loss carries one copy of the mutated gene but does not have hearing loss.  Another 20 to 25 percent of nonsyndromic hearing loss has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Most people with autosomal dominant hearing loss inherit an altered copy of the gene from a parent who also has hearing loss.  Between 1 and 2 percent of cases have an X-linked pattern of inheritance. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes in each cell. Males with X-linked nonsyndromic hearing loss tend to develop more severe hearing loss earlier in life than females who inherit a copy of the same gene mutation. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  Mitochondrial forms of the condition, which result from changes to mtDNA, account for less than 1 percent of all nonsyndromic hearing loss in the United States. These cases are inherited in a mitochondrial pattern, which is also known as maternal inheritance. This pattern of inheritance applies to genes contained in mtDNA. Because egg cells, but not sperm cells, contribute mitochondria to the developing embryo, children can only inherit disorders resulting from mtDNA mutations from their mother. These disorders can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females, but fathers do not pass traits associated with changes in mtDNA to their children.  In some cases, hearing loss occurs in people with no history of the condition in their family. These cases are described as sporadic, and the cause of the hearing loss is often unknown. When hearing loss results from environmental factors, it is not inherited.

Question: Is cap myopathy inherited ?
Answer: Cap myopathy is an autosomal dominant condition, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases are not inherited; they result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Donnai-Barrow syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. In almost all cases, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene but typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  One individual with Donnai-Barrow syndrome was found to have inherited both copies of the mutated gene from his father as a result of a genetic change called uniparental disomy (UPD). UPD occurs when a person receives two copies of a chromosome, or part of a chromosome, from one parent and no copies from the other parent. UPD can occur as a random event during the formation of egg or sperm cells or may happen in early fetal development.

Question: Is renal coloboma syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Sjgren-Larsson syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is CHMP2B-related frontotemporal dementia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Weissenbacher-Zweymller syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is dystonia 6 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell can be sufficient to cause the disorder. Some people who inherit the altered gene never develop the condition, a situation known as reduced penetrance.

Question: Is spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. In most cases, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females (who have two X chromosomes). Females with a mutation in one copy of the AR gene in each cell are typically unaffected. A few females with mutations in both copies of the gene have had mild features related to the condition, including muscle cramps and occasional tremors. Researchers believe that the milder signs and symptoms in females may be related to lower androgen levels.  A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is MPV17-related hepatocerebral mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is CHARGE syndrome inherited ?
Answer: CHARGE syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the CHD7 gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In rare cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent.

Question: Is 8p11 myeloproliferative syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is generally not inherited but arises from a mutation in the body's cells that occurs after conception. This alteration is called a somatic mutation.

Question: Is hepatic lipase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is C3 glomerulopathy inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of C3 glomerulopathy are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Only a few reported families have had more than one family member with C3 glomerulopathy. However, many affected people have had close relatives with autoimmune diseases, which occur when the immune system malfunctions and attacks the body's tissues and organs. The connection between C3 glomerulopathy and autoimmune diseases is not fully understood.

Question: Is spina bifida inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of spina bifida are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A small percentage of cases have been reported to run in families; however, the condition does not have a clear pattern of inheritance. First-degree relatives (such as siblings and children) of people with spina bifida have an increased risk of the condition compared with people in the general population.

Question: Is mandibuloacral dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is mucopolysaccharidosis type VI inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is sialidosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is tetra-amelia syndrome inherited ?
Answer: In most of the families reported so far, tetra-amelia syndrome appears to have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with tetra-amelia syndrome each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is trichohepatoenteric syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is abetalipoproteinemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is X-linked intellectual disability, Siderius type inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is myofibrillar myopathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Rotor syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. In autosomal recessive inheritance, both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. In Rotor syndrome, an affected individual must have mutations in both the SLCO1B1 and the SLCO1B3 gene, so both copies of the two genes are altered. The parents of an individual with this condition each carry one altered copy of both genes, but they do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Bart-Pumphrey syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Amish lethal microcephaly inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Miyoshi myopathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is 17-beta hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 3 deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Individuals who are genetically male and have two copies of a mutated gene in each cell are affected by 17-beta hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 3 deficiency. People with two mutations who are genetically female do not usually experience any signs and symptoms of this disorder.

Question: Is gastrointestinal stromal tumor inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of GIST are not inherited. Sporadic GIST is associated with somatic mutations, which are genetic changes that occur only in the tumor cells and occur during a person's lifetime.  In some cases of familial GIST, including those associated with mutations in the KIT and PDGFRA genes, mutations are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase a person's chance of developing tumors.  When familial GIST is associated with mutations in other genes, it can have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means alterations in both copies of the gene in each cell increase a person's chance of developing tumors.

Question: Is recombinant 8 syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the recombinant chromosome 8 in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  Most people with recombinant 8 syndrome have at least one parent with a change in chromosome 8 called an inversion. An inversion involves the breakage of a chromosome in two places; the resulting piece of DNA is reversed and reinserted into the chromosome. Genetic material is typically not lost as a result of this inversion in chromosome 8, so people usually do not have any related health problems. However, genetic material can be lost or duplicated when inversions are being passed to the next generation. People with this chromosome 8 inversion are at of risk having a child with recombinant 8 syndrome.

Question: Is triple X syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of triple X syndrome are not inherited. The chromosomal change usually occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm). An error in cell division called nondisjunction can result in reproductive cells with an abnormal number of chromosomes. For example, an egg or sperm cell may gain an extra copy of the X chromosome as a result of nondisjunction. If one of these atypical reproductive cells contributes to the genetic makeup of a child, the child will have an extra X chromosome in each of the body's cells.  46,XX/47,XXX mosaicism is also not inherited. It occurs as a random event during cell division in early embryonic development. As a result, some of an affected person's cells have two X chromosomes (46,XX), and other cells have three X chromosomes (47,XXX).

Question: Is Norrie disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation must be present in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one altered copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. She can pass on the gene, but generally does not experience signs and symptoms of the disorder. In rare cases, however, carrier females have shown some retinal abnormalities or mild hearing loss associated with Norrie disease.

Question: Is sepiapterin reductase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is familial acute myeloid leukemia with mutated CEBPA inherited ?
Answer: Familial acute myeloid leukemia with mutated CEBPA is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of the altered CEBPA gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most affected individuals also acquire a second, somatic CEBPA gene mutation in their leukemia cells.

Question: Is Carney complex inherited ?
Answer: Carney complex is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In approximately 80 percent of cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. The remaining cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of Carney complex in their family.

Question: Is Peutz-Jeghers syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Peutz-Jeghers syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of developing noncancerous polyps and cancerous tumors. In about half of all cases, an affected person inherits a mutation in the STK11 gene from one affected parent. The remaining cases occur in people with no history of Peutz-Jeghers syndrome in their family. These cases appear to result from new (de novo) mutations in the STK11 gene.

Question: Is congenital sucrase-isomaltase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is epidermal nevus inherited ?
Answer: This condition is generally not inherited but arises from mutations in the body's cells that occur after conception. This alteration is called a somatic mutation.  Occasionally, the somatic mutation occurs in a person's reproductive cells (sperm or eggs) and is passed to the next generation. An inherited FGFR3 gene mutation is found in every cell in the body, which results in skeletal abnormalities rather than epidermal nevus.

Question: Is trisomy 18 inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of trisomy 18 are not inherited, but occur as random events during the formation of eggs and sperm. An error in cell division called nondisjunction results in a reproductive cell with an abnormal number of chromosomes. For example, an egg or sperm cell may gain an extra copy of chromosome 18. If one of these atypical reproductive cells contributes to the genetic makeup of a child, the child will have an extra chromosome 18 in each of the body's cells.  Mosaic trisomy 18 is also not inherited. It occurs as a random event during cell division early in embryonic development. As a result, some of the body's cells have the usual two copies of chromosome 18, and other cells have three copies of this chromosome.  Partial trisomy 18 can be inherited. An unaffected person can carry a rearrangement of genetic material between chromosome 18 and another chromosome. This rearrangement is called a balanced translocation because there is no extra material from chromosome 18. Although they do not have signs of trisomy 18, people who carry this type of balanced translocation are at an increased risk of having children with the condition.

Question: Is Langer-Giedion syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Langer-Giedion syndrome are not inherited, but occur as random events during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) in a parent of an affected individual. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. There have been very few instances in which people with Langer-Giedion syndrome have inherited the chromosomal deletion from a parent with the condition.  Langer-Giedion syndrome is considered an autosomal dominant condition because one copy of the altered chromosome 8 in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Leigh syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Leigh syndrome can have different inheritance patterns. It is most commonly inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. This pattern of inheritance applies to genes contained in nuclear DNA. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  In about 20 to 25 percent of people with Leigh syndrome, the condition is inherited in a mitochondrial pattern, which is also known as maternal inheritance. This pattern of inheritance applies to genes contained in mtDNA. Because egg cells, but not sperm cells, contribute mitochondria to the developing embryo, children can only inherit disorders resulting from mtDNA mutations from their mother. These disorders can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females, but fathers do not pass traits associated with changes in mtDNA to their children. Occasionally, mutations in mtDNA occur spontaneously, and there is no history of Leigh syndrome in the family.  In a small number of affected individuals with mutations in nuclear DNA, Leigh syndrome is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The condition has this pattern of inheritance when the mutated gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is heterotaxy syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most often, heterotaxy syndrome is sporadic, meaning that only one person in a family is affected. However, about 10 percent of people with heterotaxy syndrome have a close relative (such as a parent or sibling) who has a congenital heart defect without other apparent features of heterotaxy syndrome. Isolated congenital heart defects and heterotaxy syndrome may represent a range of signs and symptoms that can result from a particular genetic mutation; this situation is known as variable expressivity. It is also possible that different genetic and environmental factors combine to produce isolated congenital heart defects in some family members and heterotaxy syndrome in others.  When heterotaxy syndrome runs in families, it can have an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked pattern of inheritance, depending on which gene is involved. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Autosomal recessive inheritance means that both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. In X-linked inheritance, the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes in each cell.  When heterotaxy syndrome occurs as a feature of primary ciliary dyskinesia, it has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.

Question: Is congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens inherited ?
Answer: When this condition is caused by mutations in the CFTR gene, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. This pattern of inheritance means that both copies of the gene in each cell have a mutation. Men with this condition who choose to father children through assisted reproduction have an increased risk of having a child with cystic fibrosis. If congenital absence of the vas deferens is not caused by mutations in CFTR, the risk of having children with cystic fibrosis is not increased.

Question: Is mitochondrial trifunctional protein deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is glycogen storage disease type I inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Refsum disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is DMD-associated dilated cardiomyopathy inherited ?
Answer: DMD-associated dilated cardiomyopathy has an X-linked pattern of inheritance. The DMD gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell usually leads to relatively mild heart disease that appears later in life. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes more severe signs and symptoms that occur earlier in life. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is sporadic hemiplegic migraine inherited ?
Answer: Sporadic means that the condition occurs in individuals with no history of the disorder in their family. While most cases result from new (de novo) mutations that likely occur during early embryonic development, some affected individuals inherit the genetic change that causes the condition from an unaffected parent. (When some people with the mutation have no signs and symptoms of the disorder, the condition is said to have reduced penetrance.) Although family members of an affected individual do not have sporadic hemiplegic migraine, some experience migraine headaches without hemiparesis. A related condition, familial hemiplegic migraine, has signs and symptoms identical to those in sporadic hemiplegic migraine but occurs in multiple members of a family.

Question: Is isolated Duane retraction syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Isolated Duane retraction syndrome usually occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family. These cases are described as simplex, and their genetic cause is unknown.  Less commonly, isolated Duane retraction syndrome can run in families. Familial cases most often have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. When isolated Duane retraction syndrome is caused by CHN1 mutations, it has an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern.  In a few families with isolated Duane retraction syndrome, the pattern of affected family members suggests autosomal recessive inheritance. In these families, one or more children are affected, although the parents typically have no signs or symptoms of the condition. The parents of children with an autosomal recessive condition are called carriers, which means they carry one mutated copy of a gene in each cell. In affected children, both copies of the gene in each cell are mutated. However, researchers have not discovered the gene or genes responsible for autosomal recessive isolated Duane retraction syndrome.

Question: Is Farber lipogranulomatosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is oculofaciocardiodental syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Some cells produce a normal amount of BCL6 corepressor protein and other cells produce none. The resulting overall reduction in the amount of this protein leads to the signs and symptoms of OFCD syndrome.  In males (who have only one X chromosome), mutations result in a total loss of the BCL6 corepressor protein. A lack of this protein appears to be lethal very early in development, so no males are born with OFCD syndrome.

Question: Is VLDLR-associated cerebellar hypoplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Coffin-Siris syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Coffin-Siris syndrome appears to follow an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. However, the condition is not usually inherited from an affected parent, but occurs from new (de novo) mutations in the gene that likely occur during early embryonic development.

Question: Is hidradenitis suppurativa inherited ?
Answer: Hidradenitis suppurativa has been reported to run in families. Studies have found that 30 to 40 percent of affected individuals have at least one family member with the disorder. However, this finding may be an underestimate because affected individuals do not always tell their family members that they have the condition, and hidradenitis suppurativa is sometimes misdiagnosed as other skin disorders.  In some families, including those with an NCSTN, PSEN1, or PSENEN gene mutation, hidradenitis suppurativa appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In many cases, an affected person inherits the altered gene from a parent who has the condition.

Question: Is GRN-related frontotemporal dementia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has a parent and other family members with the condition.

Question: Is IRAK-4 deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is WAGR syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of WAGR syndrome are not inherited. They result from a chromosomal deletion that occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family.  Some affected individuals inherit a chromosome 11 with a deleted segment from an unaffected parent. In these cases, the parent carries a chromosomal rearrangement called a balanced translocation, in which no genetic material is gained or lost. Balanced translocations usually do not cause any health problems; however, they can become unbalanced as they are passed to the next generation. Children who inherit an unbalanced translocation can have a chromosomal rearrangement with extra or missing genetic material. Individuals with WAGR syndrome who inherit an unbalanced translocation are missing genetic material from the short arm of chromosome 11, which results in an increased risk of Wilms tumor, aniridia, genitourinary anomalies, and intellectual disability.

Question: Is pontocerebellar hypoplasia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Imerslund-Grsbeck syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Klinefelter syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Klinefelter syndrome and its variants are not inherited; these chromosomal changes usually occur as random events during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) in a parent. An error in cell division called nondisjunction results in a reproductive cell with an abnormal number of chromosomes. For example, an egg or sperm cell may gain one or more extra copies of the X chromosome as a result of nondisjunction. If one of these atypical reproductive cells contributes to the genetic makeup of a child, the child will have one or more extra X chromosomes in each of the body's cells.  Mosaic 46,XY/47,XXY is also not inherited. It occurs as a random event during cell division early in fetal development. As a result, some of the body's cells have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome (46,XY), and other cells have an extra copy of the X chromosome (47,XXY).

Question: Is Majeed syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene. Although carriers typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition, some parents of children with Majeed syndrome have had an inflammatory skin disorder called psoriasis.

Question: Is L1 syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is Christianson syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one mutated copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. She can pass on the altered gene but usually does not experience signs and symptoms of the disorder. Occasionally, however, females who carry an SLC9A6 gene mutation have mild learning disabilities. It is unclear if these disabilities are related to the gene mutation or occur by chance.

Question: Is hypokalemic periodic paralysis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Townes-Brocks Syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is glycogen storage disease type IV inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is color vision deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Red-green color vision defects and blue cone monochromacy are inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The OPN1LW and OPN1MW genes are located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one genetic change in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females because in females (who have two X chromosomes), a genetic change would have to occur on both copies of the chromosome to cause the disorder. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  Blue-yellow color vision defects are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered OPN1SW gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In many cases, an affected person inherits the condition from an affected parent.

Question: Is X-linked creatine deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell may or may not cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In most cases of X-linked inheritance, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females. About half of females with one mutated copy of the SLC6A8 gene in each cell have intellectual disability, learning difficulties, or behavioral problems. Other females with one mutated copy of the SLC6A8 gene in each cell have no noticeable neurological problems.

Question: Is Coffin-Lowry syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. The inheritance is dominant if one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In most cases, males (who have one X chromosome in each cell) experience more severe signs and symptoms of the disorder than females (who have two X chromosomes in each cell). A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  Between 70 percent and 80 percent of people with Coffin-Lowry syndrome have no history of the condition in their families. These cases are caused by new mutations in the RPS6KA3 gene. The remaining 20 percent to 30 percent of affected individuals have other family members with Coffin-Lowry syndrome.

Question: Is Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome is considered an autosomal dominant condition, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. The condition results from new mutations in the LMNA gene, and almost always occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is lattice corneal dystrophy type I inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.

Question: Is Emanuel syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Almost everyone with Emanuel syndrome inherits the der(22) chromosome from an unaffected parent. The parent carries a chromosomal rearrangement between chromosomes 11 and 22 called a balanced translocation. No genetic material is gained or lost in a balanced translocation, so these chromosomal changes usually do not cause any health problems. However, translocations can become unbalanced as they are passed to the next generation. Individuals with Emanuel syndrome inherit an unbalanced translocation between chromosomes 11 and 22 that introduces extra genetic material in the form of the der(22) chromosome. This extra genetic material causes birth defects and the other health problems characteristic of this disorder.

Question: Is congenital neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is malignant hyperthermia inherited ?
Answer: Malignant hyperthermia susceptibility is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of a severe reaction to certain drugs used during surgery. In most cases, an affected person inherits the altered gene from a parent who is also at risk for the condition.

Question: Is small fiber neuropathy inherited ?
Answer: Small fiber neuropathy is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered SCN9A gene or SCN10A gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  When the genetic cause of small fiber neuropathy is unknown or when the condition is caused by another disorder, the inheritance pattern is unclear.

Question: Is hypermethioninemia inherited ?
Answer: Hypermethioninemia can have different inheritance patterns. This condition is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Hypermethioninemia is occasionally inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In these cases, an affected person usually has one parent with the condition.

Question: Is chylomicron retention disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is neuromyelitis optica inherited ?
Answer: Neuromyelitis optica is usually not inherited. Rarely, this condition is passed through generations in families, but the inheritance pattern is unknown.

Question: Is renal tubular dysgenesis inherited ?
Answer: Renal tubular dysgenesis is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the affected gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Crohn disease inherited ?
Answer: The inheritance pattern of Crohn disease is unclear because many genetic and environmental factors are likely to be involved. This condition tends to cluster in families, however, and having an affected family member is a significant risk factor for the disease.

Question: Is antiphospholipid syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of antiphospholipid syndrome are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Rarely, the condition has been reported to run in families; however, it does not have a clear pattern of inheritance. Multiple genetic and environmental factors likely play a part in determining the risk of developing antiphospholipid syndrome.

Question: Is adiposis dolorosa inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of adiposis dolorosa are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  A small number of familial cases of adiposis dolorosa have been reported. When the condition runs in families, it appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance because affected individuals inherit the condition from one affected parent. This pattern of inheritance suggests that one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is CATSPER1-related nonsyndromic male infertility inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show symptoms of the condition.  Males with two CATSPER1 gene mutations in each cell have CATSPER1-related nonsyndromic male infertility. Females with two CATSPER1 gene mutations in each cell have no symptoms because the mutations only affect sperm function, and women do not produce sperm.

Question: Is Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome can have different inheritance patterns. In most cases it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Rarely, this condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. These cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is microcephaly-capillary malformation syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means both copies of the STAMBP gene in each cell have mutations. An affected individual usually inherits one altered copy of the gene from each parent. Parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  At least one individual with microcephaly-capillary malformation syndrome inherited two mutated copies of the STAMBP gene through a mechanism called uniparental isodisomy. In this case, an error occurred during the formation of egg or sperm cells, and the child received two copies of the mutated gene from one parent instead of one copy from each parent.

Question: Is atopic dermatitis inherited ?
Answer: Allergic disorders tend to run in families; having a parent with atopic dermatitis, asthma, or hay fever raises the chances a person will develop atopic dermatitis. When associated with FLG gene mutations, atopic dermatitis follows an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, which means one copy of the altered FLG gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of the disorder. Individuals with two altered copies of the gene are more likely to develop the disorder and can have more severe signs and symptoms than individuals with a single altered copy. When associated with other genetic factors, the inheritance pattern is unclear.  People with changes in one of the genes associated with atopic dermatitis, including FLG, inherit an increased risk of this condition, not the condition itself. Not all people with this condition have a mutation in an associated gene, and not all people with a variation in an associated gene will develop the disorder.

Question: Is renal hypouricemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is typically inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the SLC22A12 or SLC2A9 gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they usually do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Sometimes, individuals with one SLC2A9 gene mutation in each cell have reduced levels of uric acid. The levels usually are not as low as they are in people who have mutations in both copies of the gene, and they often do not cause any signs or symptoms. Rarely, people who carry one copy of the mutated gene will develop uric acid kidney stones.

Question: Is 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA lyase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Poland syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Poland syndrome are sporadic, which means they are not inherited and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their families. Rarely, this condition is passed through generations in families. In these families the condition appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder, although no associated genes have been found.

Question: Is myopathy with deficiency of iron-sulfur cluster assembly enzyme inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is dyskeratosis congenita inherited ?
Answer: Dyskeratosis congenita can have different inheritance patterns.  When dyskeratosis congenita is caused by DKC1 gene mutations, it is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The DKC1 gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  When dyskeratosis congenita is caused by mutations in other genes, it can be inherited in an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive pattern. Autosomal dominant means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Autosomal recessive means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is hereditary spherocytosis inherited ?
Answer: In about 75 percent of cases, hereditary spherocytosis is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  This condition can also be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is achondrogenesis inherited ?
Answer: Achondrogenesis type 1A and type 1B both have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means both copies of the TRIP11 or SLC26A2 gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Achondrogenesis type 2 is considered an autosomal dominant disorder because one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. It is almost always caused by new mutations in the COL2A1 gene and typically occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is lactose intolerance inherited ?
Answer: The type of lactose intolerance that occurs in infants (congenital lactase deficiency) is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the LCT gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  The ability to digest lactose into adulthood depends on which variations in the regulatory element within the MCM6 gene individuals have inherited from their parents. The variations that promote continued lactase production are considered autosomal dominant, which means one copy of the altered regulatory element in each cell is sufficient to sustain lactase production. People who have not inherited these variations from either parent will have some degree of lactose intolerance.

Question: Is spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. An affected person usually inherits the altered gene from one affected parent. However, some people with SCA2 do not have a parent with the disorder. Individuals who have an increase in the number of CAG repeats in the ATXN2 gene, but do not develop SCA2, are at risk of having children who will develop the disorder.  As the altered ATXN2 gene is passed down from one generation to the next, the length of the CAG trinucleotide repeat often increases. A larger number of repeats is usually associated with an earlier onset of signs and symptoms. This phenomenon is called anticipation. Anticipation tends to be more prominent when the ATXN2 gene is inherited from a person's father (paternal inheritance) than when it is inherited from a person's mother (maternal inheritance).

Question: Is beta-ureidopropionase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is microvillus inclusion disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Weaver syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In a small number of cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent.

Question: Is Pfeiffer syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is beta-ketothiolase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is familial thoracic aortic aneurysm and dissection inherited ?
Answer: Familial TAAD is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell can be sufficient to cause the condition. In most cases, an affected person has one affected parent. However, some people who inherit an altered gene never develop the aortic abnormalities associated with the condition; this situation is known as reduced penetrance.

Question: Is familial lipoprotein lipase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Researchers speculate that if family members of affected individuals have a mutation in one copy of the LPL gene in each cell, they may have a mild increase in fat levels in the blood, which could increase their risk of health problems such as heart disease or diabetes. However, studies have not clearly demonstrated whether these individuals are more prone to develop these health problems than individuals in the general population.

Question: Is neuropathy, ataxia, and retinitis pigmentosa inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in a mitochondrial pattern, which is also known as maternal inheritance. This pattern of inheritance applies to genes contained in mtDNA. Because egg cells, but not sperm cells, contribute mitochondria to the developing embryo, children can only inherit disorders resulting from mtDNA mutations from their mother. These disorders can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females, but fathers do not pass traits associated with changes in mtDNA to their children.  Most of the body's cells contain thousands of mitochondria, each with one or more copies of mtDNA. The severity of some mitochondrial disorders is associated with the percentage of mitochondria in each cell that has a particular genetic change. Most individuals with NARP have a specific MT-ATP6 mutation in 70 percent to 90 percent of their mitochondria. When this mutation is present in a higher percentage of a person's mitochondriagreater than 90 percent to 95 percentit causes a more severe condition known as maternally inherited Leigh syndrome. Because these two conditions result from the same genetic changes and can occur in different members of a single family, researchers believe that they may represent a spectrum of overlapping features instead of two distinct syndromes.

Question: Is familial encephalopathy with neuroserpin inclusion bodies inherited ?
Answer: FENIB is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In many cases, an affected person has a parent with the condition.

Question: Is dentinogenesis imperfecta inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.

Question: Is vitiligo inherited ?
Answer: Vitiligo sometimes runs in families, but the inheritance pattern is complex since multiple causative factors are involved. About one-fifth of people with this condition have at least one close relative who is also affected.

Question: Is dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Depending on the severity of these mutations, people with two mutated copies of the DPYD gene in each cell may exhibit the signs and symptoms of this disorder, or they may be generally asymptomatic but at risk for toxic reactions to fluoropyrimidine drugs.  The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. However, people with one mutated copy of the DPYD gene in each cell may still experience toxic reactions to fluoropyrimidine drugs.

Question: Is Frasier syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is hyperlysinemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Zellweger spectrum disorder inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Swyer syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of Swyer syndrome are not inherited; they occur in people with no history of the condition in their family. These cases result either from nongenetic causes or from new (de novo) mutations in a gene that occur during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development.  SRY-related Swyer syndrome is usually caused by a new mutation. However, some individuals with Swyer syndrome inherit an altered SRY gene from an unaffected father who is mosaic for the mutation. Mosaic means that an individual has the mutation in some cells (including some reproductive cells) but not in others. In rare cases, a father may carry the mutation in every cell of the body but also has other genetic variations that prevent him from being affected by the condition. Because the SRY gene is on the Y chromosome, Swyer syndrome caused by SRY gene mutations is described as having a Y-linked inheritance pattern.  When Swyer syndrome is associated with an MAP3K1 or NR5A1 gene mutation, the condition is also usually caused by a new mutation. In the rare inherited cases, the mutation may be inherited from either parent, since these genes are not on the Y chromosome. In these cases, the condition has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition.  Swyer syndrome caused by mutations in the DHH gene is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition are carriers of one copy of the altered gene. Female carriers of a DHH gene mutation generally have typical sex development. Male carriers of a DHH gene mutation may also be unaffected, or they may have genital differences such as the urethra opening on the underside of the penis (hypospadias).

Question: Is spastic paraplegia type 11 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is paroxysmal extreme pain disorder inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is multicentric osteolysis, nodulosis, and arthropathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is histidinemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is myotonia congenita inherited ?
Answer: The two forms of myotonia congenita have different patterns of inheritance. Thomsen disease is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.  Becker disease is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Because several CLCN1 mutations can cause either Becker disease or Thomsen disease, doctors usually rely on characteristic signs and symptoms to distinguish the two forms of myotonia congenita.

Question: Is glutaric acidemia type II inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is atelosteogenesis type 2 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is mevalonate kinase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is tarsal-carpal coalition syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is persistent Mllerian duct syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. However, persistent Mllerian duct syndrome affects only males. Females with two mutated copies of the gene do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is deoxyguanosine kinase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Deoxyguanosine kinase deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. In most cases, the parents of an individual with this condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is 17 alpha-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is aceruloplasminemia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is complement factor I deficiency inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Dowling-Degos disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is autoimmune polyglandular syndrome, type 1 inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Renpenning syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation typically has to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is Asperger syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Autism spectrum disorders including Asperger syndrome have a tendency to run in families, but the inheritance pattern is unknown.

Question: Is retroperitoneal fibrosis inherited ?
Answer: Most cases of retroperitoneal fibrosis are sporadic, which means that they occur in people with no apparent history of the disorder in their family. In rare cases, the condition has been reported to occur in a few members of the same family, but the inheritance pattern is unknown.

Question: Is Legg-Calv-Perthes disease inherited ?
Answer: When associated with COL2A1 gene mutations, the condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered COL2A1 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  Most COL2A1-associated cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. These cases are referred to as sporadic. In other cases, the condition is passed through families. In these cases, referred to as familial, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent.

Question: Is Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome inherited ?
Answer: In about 85 percent of cases of Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, only one person in a family has been diagnosed with the condition. However, parents of one child with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome may be at risk of having other children with the disorder. This risk depends on the genetic cause of the condition.  Another 10 to 15 percent of people with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome are part of families with more than one affected family member. In most of these families, the condition appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of an altered gene in each cell is typically sufficient to cause the disorder. In most of these cases, individuals with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome inherit the genetic change from their mothers. Occasionally, a person who inherits the altered gene will not have any of the characteristic signs and symptoms of the condition.  Rarely, Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome results from changes in the structure of chromosome 11. Some of these chromosomal abnormalities are inherited from a parent, while others occur as random events during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) or in the earliest stages of development before birth.

Question: Is ataxia with oculomotor apraxia inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Costello syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Costello syndrome is considered to be an autosomal dominant condition, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Almost all reported cases have resulted from new gene mutations and have occurred in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is craniofacial-deafness-hand syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.

Question: Is Laing distal myopathy inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. A small percentage of cases result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is biotin-thiamine-responsive basal ganglia disease inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Pearson marrow-pancreas syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Pearson marrow-pancreas syndrome is generally not inherited but arises from new (de novo) mutations that likely occur in early embryonic development.

Question: Is hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: Hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia has several different inheritance patterns. Most cases are caused by mutations in the EDA gene, which are inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation must be present in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one altered copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. In about 70 percent of cases, carriers of hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia experience some features of the condition. These signs and symptoms are usually mild and include a few missing or abnormal teeth, sparse hair, and some problems with sweat gland function. Some carriers, however, have more severe features of this disorder.  Less commonly, hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia results from mutations in the EDAR or EDARADD gene. EDAR mutations can have an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, and EDARADD mutations have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Autosomal recessive inheritance means two copies of the gene in each cell are altered. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive disorder are carriers of one copy of the altered gene but do not show signs and symptoms of the disorder.

Question: Is achondroplasia inherited ?
Answer: Achondroplasia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. About 80 percent of people with achondroplasia have average-size parents; these cases result from new mutations in the FGFR3 gene. In the remaining cases, people with achondroplasia have inherited an altered FGFR3 gene from one or two affected parents. Individuals who inherit two altered copies of this gene typically have a severe form of achondroplasia that causes extreme shortening of the bones and an underdeveloped rib cage. These individuals are usually stillborn or die shortly after birth from respiratory failure.

Question: Is head and neck squamous cell carcinoma inherited ?
Answer: HNSCC is generally not inherited; it typically arises from mutations in the body's cells that occur during an individual's lifetime. This type of alteration is called a somatic mutation.  Rarely, HNSCC is found in several members of a family. These families have inherited disorders that increase the risk of multiple types of cancer.

Question: Is Lowe syndrome inherited ?
Answer: This condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation must be present in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Most X-linked disorders affect males much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In some cases of Lowe syndrome, an affected male inherits the mutation from a mother who carries one altered copy of the OCRL gene. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in males with no history of the disorder in their family.  Females who carry one mutated copy of the OCRL gene do not have the characteristic features of Lowe syndrome. Most female carriers, however, have changes in the lens of the eye that can be observed with a thorough eye examination. These changes typically do not impair vision.

Question: Is Danon disease inherited ?
Answer: How is Danon disease inherited? Dannon disease is inherited in an X-linked fashion. Click here to visit the Centre for Genetics Education Web site to learn more about X linked inheritance.

Question: Is Ehlers-Danlos syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Ehlers-Danlos syndrome inherited? The inheritance pattern of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) varies by subtype. The arthrochalasia, classic, hypermobility, and vascular forms of the disorder usually have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with one of these subtypes has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child. The dermatosparaxis and kyphoscoliosis types of EDS are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Lesch Nyhan syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Lesch Nyhan syndrome inherited? Lesch Nyhan syndrome is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. A condition is X-linked if the changed (mutated) gene responsible for the condition is located on the X chromosome. The X chromosome is one of the two sex chromosomes; females have two X chromosomes, and males have one X and one Y chromosome. Females who have one mutated copy of the responsible gene (on one of their X chromosomes) usually do not have the condition and are referred to as carriers. This is because they still have a working copy of the responsible gene on their other X chromosome. Males with one mutated copy of the responsible gene have signs and symptoms of the condition (they are affected) because they do not have another X chromosome with a working copy of the gene. This is why X-linked recessive disorders, including Lesch Nyhan syndrome, occur much more frequently in males. Lesch Nyhan syndrome is caused by mutations in the HPRT1 gene. A female who is a carrier of Lesch Nyhan syndrome has a 50% chance of passing on the mutated HPRT1 gene in each pregnancy. This is because a carrier female will randomly pass on one of her X chromosome to each child. Sons who inherit the mutated gene will be affected, and daughters who inherit the mutated gene will be carriers. This means that with each pregnancy, a female who is a carrier has a: 50% (1 in 2) chance of having an unaffected son or daughter 25% (1 in 4) chance of having an affected son 25% chance of having a carrier daughter

Question: Is Bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria inherited ?
Answer: Is bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria inherited? In most cases, bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria (BPP) occurs sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. Rarely, more than one family member may be affected by BPP. These cases may follow an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked pattern of inheritance.

Question: Is Rheumatic Fever inherited ?
Answer: Is rheumatic fever inherited? Rheumatic fever is likely inherited in a multifactorial manner, which means it is caused by multiple genes interacting with each other and with environmental factors. The condition is thought to occur in genetically susceptible children who are infected with group A Streptococcus bacteria and live in poor social conditions. Some studies suggest that differences in the expression of various genes involved in the immune response may contribute to rheumatic fever susceptibility.

Question: Is 47 XXX syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is 47 XXX syndrome inherited? Most cases of 47 XXX syndrome are not inherited. The chromosomal change usually occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm). An error in cell division called nondisjunction can result in reproductive cells with an abnormal number of chromosomes. For example, an egg or sperm cell may gain an extra copy of the X chromosome as a result of nondisjunction. If one of these reproductive cells contributes to the genetic makeup of a child, the child will have an extra X chromosome in each of the body's cells. 46,XX/47,XXX mosaicism is also not inherited. It occurs as a random event during cell division in the early development of an embryo. As a result, some of an affected person's cells have two X chromosomes (46,XX), and other cells have three X chromosomes (47,XXX). Transmission of an abnormal number of X chromosomes from women with 47 XXX syndrome is rare, although it has been reported. Some reports suggest a <5% increased risk for a chromosomally abnormal pregnancy, and other more recent reports suggest that <1% may be more accurate. These risks are separate from the risks of having a chromosomally abnormal pregnancy due to maternal age or any other factors. Furthermore, these risks generally apply only to women with non-mosaic 47 XXX syndrome, as mosaicism may increase the risk of passing on an abnormal number of X chromosomes and potential outcomes. Each individual with 47 XXX syndrome who is interested in learning about their own risks to have a child with a chromosome abnormality or other genetic abnormality should speak with their healthcare provider or a genetics professional.

Question: Is Alpha-thalassemia inherited ?
Answer: How is alpha-thalassemia inherited? The inheritance of alpha-thalassemia is complex because the condition involves two genes: HBA1 and HBA2. People have two copies of the HBA1 gene and two copies of the HBA2 gene in each cell. Each copy is called an allele. Therefore, there are 4 alleles that produce alpha-globin, the protein that results from these genes. For each of the 2 genes, one allele is inherited from a person's father, and the other is inherited from a person's mother - so each person inherits 2 alleles from each parent. The different types of alpha-thalassemia result from the loss of some or all of these alleles. If both parents are missing at least one alpha-globin allele, each of their children are at risk of having Hb Bart syndrome or hydrops fetalis, hemoglobin H (HbH) disease, or alpha-thalassemia trait. The precise risk depends on how many alleles are missing and which combination of the HBA1 and HBA2 genes is affected. In most cases: a person with 1 mutated allele is a carrier and has no signs or symptoms a person with 2 mutated alleles may have mild signs or symptoms of alpha-thalassemia (called alpha-thalassemia minor, or alpha-thalassemia trait) a person with 3 mutated alleles has moderate to severe symptoms (called HbH disease) When there are 4 mutated alleles, the condition is called alpha-thalassemia major or hydrops fetalis. In these cases, an affected fetus usually does not survive to birth, or an affected newborn does not survive long after birth.

Question: Is Glucose transporter type 1 deficiency syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is glucose transporter type 1 deficiency syndrome inherited? Glucose transporter type 1 deficiency syndrome (GLUT1 deficiency syndrome) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with GLUT1 deficiency syndrome has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is Cleidocranial dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: How is cleidocranial dysplasia inherited? Cleidocranial dysplasia is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases may result from de novo mutations (new mutations) in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is X-linked hypophosphatemia inherited ?
Answer: How is X-linked hypophosphatemia inherited? X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) is caused by mutations in the PHEX gene, and is inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. This means that the gene responsible for the condition is located on the X chromosome, and having only one mutated copy of the gene is enough to cause the condition in both males and females. A female with XLH has a 50% chance of passing along a mutation to each of her children. Since males only have one X-chromosome, a male with XLH will pass along the condition to all of his daughters, but not to his sons. PHEX mutations are inherited through families, but they can also occur spontaneously, explaining why some people with XLH may not have a previous family history.

Question: Is Bartter syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Bartter syndrome inherited? Bartter syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, which means that both copies of the disease-causing gene (one inherited from each parent) have a mutation in an affected individual. Parents who each carry one mutated copy of the gene are referred to as carriers and typically do not have signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers for an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier. Click here to visit the Genetic Home Reference Web site and view an illustration that demonstrates autosomal recessive inheritance.

Question: Is Gordon syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Gordon syndrome inherited? While some reports suggest Gordon syndrome may be inherited in an X-linked dominant manner, most agree that it is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with reduced expressivity and incomplete penetrance in females. In autosomal dominant inheritance, having only one mutated copy of the disease-causing gene in each cell is sufficient to cause signs and symptoms of the condition. When an individual with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the mutated copy of the gene. If a condition shows variable or reduced expressivity, it means that there can be a range in the nature and severity of signs and symptoms among affected individuals. Incomplete penetrance means that a portion of the individuals who carry the mutated copy of the disease-causing gene will not have any features of the condition.

Question: Is Multicentric Castleman Disease inherited ?
Answer: Is multicentric Castleman disease inherited? Although the exact underlying cause of multicentric Castleman disease is unknown, it is thought to occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition.

Question: Is Klippel Feil syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Klippel Feil syndrome inherited? In some cases, Klippel Feil syndrome (KFS) appears to occur randomly for unknown reasons (sporadically). In other cases, the condition appears to be genetic and may occur in more than one person in a family. Both autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive inheritance patterns have been reported, with different responsible genes. When KFS is caused by changes (mutations) in the GDF6 or GDF3 genes, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having a mutation in only one copy of the responsible gene is enough to cause features of the condition. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the mutated copy of the gene. When KFS is caused by mutations in the MEOX1 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that a person must have mutations in both copies of the responsible gene to be affected. The parents of a person with an autosomal recessive condition usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers are typically unaffected. When two carriers of the same autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to be affected, a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent, and a 25% risk to be unaffected and not be a carrier. When KFS occurs as a feature of another condition, the inheritance pattern follows that of the other condition.

Question: Is Osteogenesis imperfecta type VI inherited ?
Answer: How is osteogenesis imperfecta type 6 inherited? Osteogenesis imperfecta type 6 has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means that two copies of the gene in each cell are altered. The parents of a child with an autosomal recessive disorder typically are not affected, but each carry one copy of the altered gene (they are referred to as carriers). When two carriers for an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier. The children of an individual with an autosomal recessive type of OI are always carriers for a disease-causing mutation.

Question: Is Sjogren syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Sjogren syndrome inherited? A genetic predisposition to Sjogren syndrome has been suggested. Familial clustering of different autoimmune diseases as well as co-association of multiple autoimmune diseases in individuals have frequently been reported. Some studies have shown up to 30% of people with Sjogren syndrome have relatives with autoimmune diseases. While the relatives of people with Sjogren syndrome are at an increased risk of developing autoimmune diseases in general, they are not necessarily more likely to develop Sjogren syndrome.

Question: Is Achondrogenesis inherited ?
Answer: How is achondrogenesis inherited? Achondrogenesis type 1A and type 1B are believed to be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern.  Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations.  Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Achondrogenesis type 2 is considered an autosomal dominant disorder because one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. It is almost always caused by new (de novo) mutations and typically occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia inherited ?
Answer: Is chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia inherited? Chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia (CPEO) can be inherited, or it can occur sporadically (due to a new mutation in an individual with no history of the condition in the family). CPEO is considered a "mitochondrial disorder." This is because all the genetic mutations that can cause CPEO ultimately result in dysfunction of the mitochondria, which are structures in our cells that produce energy required for normal cell function. While most of our DNA is located in the cell's center (nuclear DNA), some of our DNA is located within the mitochondria (mitochondrial DNA). CPEO can be caused by mutations in any of several genes, which may be located in mitochondrial DNA or nuclear DNA. It has different inheritance patterns depending on the gene involved in the affected individual. Unlike nuclear DNA which is inherited from both the mother and the father, mitochondrial DNA is inherited from only the mother. In CPEO, the affected mitochondria (i.e., the ones carrying the mutations) are found only in the skeletal muscle cells. These mitochondrial DNA mutations are almost always sporadic (occurring by chance for the first time in the affected individual). Nuclear gene mutations that cause CPEO may be inherited in an autosomal recessive or autosomal dominant manner, depending on the gene involved. The risk for other family members to be affected depends on the genetic cause and the inheritance pattern in the family.

Question: Is 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency inherited? This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated periodic syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS) inherited? TRAPS is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having a mutation in only one of the 2 copies of the responsible gene is enough to cause signs and symptoms of the condition. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the mutated copy of the gene. In many cases, a person with TRAPS inherits the condition from an affected parent. In other cases, the mutation occurs for the first time in the affected person and is not inherited from a parent. For unknown reasons, some people who inherit the mutated gene never develop features of TRAPS. When this occurs, a condition is said to have reduced penetrance.

Question: Is Isovaleric acidemia inherited ?
Answer: How is isovaleric acidemia inherited? Isovaleric acidemia is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Mandibulofacial dysostosis with microcephaly inherited ?
Answer: How is mandibulofacial dysostosis with microcephaly inherited? Mandibulofacial dysostosis with microcephaly (MFDM) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having one mutated copy of the responsible gene in each cell of the body is enough to cause signs and symptoms of the condition. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the mutated copy of the gene. Most cases of MFDM are due to new mutations that occur for the first time in the affected person (called de novo mutations), and are not inherited from a parent. In other cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from a parent. The parent may be mildly affected or may be unaffected. Sometimes, an unaffected parent has the mutation only in some or all of their sperm or egg cells (not their body cells), which is known as germline mosaicism.

Question: Is Rett syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Rett syndrome inherited? Although Rett syndrome is a genetic disorder, less than 1 percent of recorded cases are inherited or passed from one generation to the next. Most cases are sporadic, which means the mutation occurs randomly, and are not inherited. A few families have been described with more than one affected family member. These cases helped researchers determine that Rett syndrome has an X-linked dominant pattern of inheritance. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. The inheritance is dominant if one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition.

Question: Is Peters plus syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Peters plus syndrome inherited? Peters plus syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion, which means that an individual needs to inherit two disease-causing mutations of the B3GALTL gene-one from each parent-in order to have symptoms of the condition. Parents of individuals with the condition typically do not show signs and symptoms of Peters plus syndrome.

Question: Is Chromosome 4q deletion inherited ?
Answer: How is chromosome 4q deletion inherited? Chromosome 4q deletion is usually not inherited. The deletion often occurs sporadically as a random event during the formation of the egg or sperm. In this case, a person would have no family history of the condition but could pass the deletion on to children. Rarely, this deletion is passed down from parent to child. However, the symptoms and severity can vary between family members.

Question: Is Neurofibromatosis type 1 inherited ?
Answer: How is neurofibromatosis type 1 inherited? Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell to have a genetic predisposition to the tumors associated with NF1. In approximately half of cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene; these cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with NF1 has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is Laryngomalacia inherited ?
Answer: Is laryngomalacia inherited? Laryngomalacia may be inherited in some instances. Only a few cases of familial laryngomalacia (occurring in more than one family member) have been described in the literature. In some of these cases, autosomal dominant inheritance has been suggested. Laryngomalacia has also been reported as being associated with various syndromes. In cases where these specific syndromes are inherited, a predisposition to being born with laryngomalacia may be present. However, even within a family, not all individuals affected with one of these syndromes will have the exact same signs and symptoms (including laryngomalacia). Syndromes that have been associated with laryngomalacia include diastrophic dysplasia, alopecia universalis congenital, XY gonadal dysgenesis, Costello syndrome, DiGeorge syndrome, and acrocallosal syndrome. The inheritance pattern depends upon the specific syndrome present.

Question: Is Albright's hereditary osteodystrophy inherited ?
Answer: How is progressive osseous heteroplasia inherited? This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. People normally inherit one copy of each gene from their mother and one copy from their father. For most genes, both copies are active, or "turned on," in all cells. For a small subset of genes, however, only one of the two copies is active. For some of these genes, only the copy inherited from a person's father (the paternal copy) is active, while for other genes, only the copy inherited from a person's mother (the maternal copy) is active. These differences in gene activation based on the gene's parent of origin are caused by a phenomenon called genomic imprinting. The GNAS gene has a complex genomic imprinting pattern. In some cells of the body the maternal copy of the gene is active, while in others the paternal copy is active. Progressive osseous heteroplasia occurs when mutations affect the paternal copy of the gene. Thus, progressive heteroplasia is usually inherited from the father.

Question: Is Myotonic dystrophy type 1 inherited ?
Answer: How is myotonic dystrophy type 1 inherited? Myotonic dystrophy type 1 is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one affected parent. As myotonic dystrophy is passed from one generation to the next, the disorder generally begins earlier in life and signs and symptoms become more severe. This phenomenon is called anticipation.  Some individuals diagnosed with Myotonic dystrophy type 1 have an obviously affected parent; others do not. A parent may appear to be unaffected because symptoms may be mild or absent. Genetic testing is available to confirm the presence of the condition.

Question: Is Spondylothoracic dysostosis inherited ?
Answer: Is spondylothoracic dysostosis genetic? Yes. Spondylothoracic dysostosis is caused by mutations in the MESP2 gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion.

Question: Is Cold urticaria inherited ?
Answer: Is cold urticaria inherited? Cold urticaria is not thought to be inherited. Most cases occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition.

Question: Is Majeed syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Majeed syndrome inherited? Majeed syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene. Although carriers typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition, some parents of children with Majeed syndrome have had an inflammatory skin disorder called psoriasis.

Question: Is Glass-Chapman-Hockley syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Glass-Chapman-Hockley syndrome inherited? Based on the only family that has been reported in the medical literature, to date, the syndrome is believed to be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.

Question: Is Doyne honeycomb retinal dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: How is Doyne honeycomb retinal dystrophy inherited? Doyne honeycomb retinal dystrophy (DHRD) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having only one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause signs and symptoms of the condition.  When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the mutated gene from the affected parent. Children who do not inherit the mutated gene will not develop or pass on the disease.

Question: Is Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease inherited ?
Answer: How is autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease inherited? Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease (ARPKD) is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that an affected individual has two gene alterations (mutations) in the PKHD1 gene, with one mutation inherited from each parent. Each parent, who has one altered copy of the gene, is referred to as a carrier. Carriers do not typically show signs and symptoms of the condition. When two carriers for an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be an unaffected carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier. This means that with each pregnancy, there is a 75% (3 in 4) chance to have an unaffected child.

Question: Is Coats disease inherited ?
Answer: How is Coats disease inherited? In most cases, Coats disease is not inherited. Eighty to 90% of affected people have no evidence of a genetic predisposition to the condition and no affected family members. Rarely, Coats disease can be inherited as a feature of several different genetic syndromes. For example, Coats disease has been reported in people with Senior-Loken syndrome and is a key symptom of a condition called Coats plus syndrome, which is characterized by Coats disease plus abnormalities of the brain, bones, gastrointestinal system, and other parts of the body. Both of these conditions are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.

Question: Is Fatal familial insomnia inherited ?
Answer: How is fatal familial insomnia inherited? Fatal familial insomnia (FFI) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with FFI has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is Benign schwannoma inherited ?
Answer: Are schwannomas inherited? Most schwannomas are not inherited. The vast majority of schwannomas occur by chance (sporadically) and as a single tumor. In these cases, people typically do not have affected family members. Around 5-10% of people develop multiple schwannomas. In these cases, the schwannomas may be due to an inherited condition which can be passed from parent to child. For example, neurofibromatosis type 2 and schwannomatosis are two conditions known to cause multiple schwannomas. Both of these conditions are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with neurofibromatosis type 2 or schwannomatosis has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is Type 1 plasminogen deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Is plasminogen deficiency, type 1 inherited? If so, in what manner? Plasminogen deficiency, type 1 is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion, which means that an individual must inherit two disease-causing mutated copies of the plasminogen gene in order to have the condition and exhibit symptoms.

Question: Is Pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency inherited? Pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency is most commonly caused by mutations in the E1 alpha gene, which is located on the X chromosome (one of the sex chromosomes) and is typically inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Dominant inheritance occurs when an abnormal gene from one parent is capable of causing disease, even though a matching gene from the other parent is normal. The abnormal gene "dominates" the gene pair. Females have two X chromosomes (one from each parent) and males have one X chromosome from the mother and one Y chromosome from the father. For an X-linked dominant disorder, because one mutated gene is enough to cause the condition, both males and females can have the condition. Because males have no other copy of the X chromosome with a working gene, affected males usually have more severe disease than affected females (who have another X chromosome with a working gene).  If the father carries the abnormal X gene, all of his daughters will inherit the disease and none of his sons will have the disease. If the mother carries the abnormal X gene, there is a 50% (1 in 2) chance for each child (whether male or female) to inherit the disease. The condition may also be caused by a new mutation that first appears in an affected individual, without either parent carrying an abnormal gene for the condition. The other genes that are thought to cause pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency appear to be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner and are not on the sex chromosomes. This means that two non-working copies of the gene that is causing the condition must be present for an individual to have the condition. When an individual has an autosomal recessive condition, each of that person's parents have a non-working copy of the gene and are referred to as "carriers." When 2 carriers for the same condition are having children, there is a 25% (1 in 4) chance for each child to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) chance for each child to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance for each child to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Hailey-Hailey disease inherited ?
Answer: How is Hailey-Hailey disease inherited? Hailey-Hailey disease is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having only one mutated copy of the disease-causing gene in each cell is enough to cause signs or symptoms of the condition. Some people with Hailey-Hailey disease inherit the condition from an affected parent. Other cases are due to a new mutation in the gene and occur in people with no history of the condition in their family. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the mutated copy of the gene.

Question: Is Hereditary multiple osteochondromas inherited ?
Answer: How is hereditary multiple osteochondromas inherited? HMO is caused by mutations in the EXT1 and EXT2 genes. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause this condition. In most cases, an affected individual inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the condition in their family. Most affected individuals (96%) that have inherited a gene mutation from their parent show signs and symptoms of this condition. However, the family history may appear negative because of the failure to recognize the disorder in family members and/or reduced penetrance. Reports have suggested that some females may not show clinical features of HMO but still have the gene mutation that causes this condition.

Question: Is Dentinogenesis imperfecta inherited ?
Answer: How do people inherit dentinogenesis imperfecta? Dentinogenesis imperfecta is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.

Question: Is Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency inherited? G6PD deficiency is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one changed (mutated) copy of the gene in each cell is enough to cause the condition because they don't have another X chromosome with a normal copy of the gene. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two mutated copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. Fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is Hashimoto's syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Hashimoto's syndrome inherited? The inheritance pattern of Hashimoto's syndrome is unclear because many genetic and environmental factors appear to be involved. However, the condition can cluster in families, and having a close relative with Hashimoto's syndrome or another autoimmune disorder likely increases a person's risk of developing the condition.

Question: Is Gardner syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Gardner syndrome inherited? Gardner syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with Gardner syndrome has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is Jones syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Jones syndrome inherited? Jones syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having only one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause signs or symptoms of the condition. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the mutated copy of the gene from the affected parent.

Question: Is Severe combined immunodeficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is severe combined immunodeficiency inherited? Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) can be inherited in an X-linked recessive or autosomal recessive manner depending on the genetic cause of the condition. X-linked SCID is the most common type of SCID and is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. A condition is X-linked if the changed (mutated) gene responsible for the condition is located on the X chromosome. The X chromosome is one of the two sex chromosomes; females have two X chromosomes and males have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome. In males, one mutated copy of the responsible gene causes signs and symptoms of the condition because they don't have another X chromosome with a working copy of the gene. In females, having one mutated copy of the gene would make them an unaffected carrier; a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the condition. This is why X-linked recessive disorders, including X-linked SCID, occur much more frequently in males. Because fathers only pass their Y chromosome on to their sons, fathers cannot pass X-linked conditions on to their sons. The other, less common causes of SCID are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. These types are due to mutations in responsible genes on other chromosomes (not the sex chromosomes). In autosomal recessive conditions, a person must have mutations in both copies of the responsible gene in order to have signs or symptoms of the condition. In most cases, the affected person inherits one mutated copy of the gene from each of the parents, who are typically unaffected carriers.

Question: Is Craniometaphyseal dysplasia, autosomal dominant inherited ?
Answer: How is autosomal dominant craniometaphyseal dysplasia inherited? Autosomal dominant craniometaphyseal dysplasia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one altered copy of the ANKH gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Individuals with autosomal dominant craniometaphyseal dysplasia typically have one parent who also has the condition. Less often, cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Empty sella syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is empty sella syndrome inherited? Empty sella syndrome (ESS) is typically not inherited. We are aware of one report of familial ESS, occurring in a father and two children. Some researchers believe that a defect present at birth may play a role in the development of the condition, but are unsure whether the defect directly causes ESS or is only a predisposing factor.

Question: Is Fabry disease inherited ?
Answer: How is Fabry disease inherited? Fabry disease is inherited in an X-linked pattern, which means that the gene that causes the condition is located on the X chromosome. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one mutated copy of the gene is enough to cause symptoms of the condition. Because females have two copies of the X chromosome, one mutated copy of the gene in each cell usually leads to less severe symptoms in females than in males, or may cause no symptoms at all.

Question: Is Hereditary endotheliopathy, retinopathy, nephropathy, and stroke inherited ?
Answer: How is hereditary endotheliopathy with retinopathy, nephropathy, and stroke (HERNS) inherited? Hereditary endotheliopathy with retinopathy, nephropathy, and stroke (HERNS) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having a mutation in only one copy of the gene responsible for the condition is sufficient to cause signs and symptoms of HERNS. When an individual with HERNS has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the mutated gene. The term retinal vasculopathy with cerebral leukodystrophy (RVCL) has recently been adopted to include HERNS; cerebroretinal vasculopathy (CRV); and hereditary vascular retinopathy (HVR); historically, these 3 conditions have been considered distinct. However, recent genetic studies have shown that these 3 conditions are likely variations of RVCL and are now known to be caused by mutations in the TREX1 gene.

Question: Is Felty's syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Felty's syndrome inherited? It has not been concluded that Felty's syndrome is an inherited condition; most individuals with Felty's syndrome have not had a history of the condition in their family. However, there have been a few reports of the condition appearing to be familial. Furthermore, although the condition itself may not be inherited, some of the risk factors associated with Felty's syndrome may have genetic components. One study found that a family history of rheumatoid arthritis was more common in patients with Felty's syndrome and that there was a strong association with HLA-DR4 (an immune system gene common in individuals with RA). The authors also stated that there was an increased frequency of another gene as well, suggesting that certain other immune system genes may interact with HLA-DR4 and contribute to individuals developing Felty's syndrome. In another report, the authors described a family in which 3 siblings had Felty's syndrome. All of the siblings shared a specific haplotype (a group of immune system genes that may be inherited together). The authors stated that they believe this supports the theory that multiple genetic factors are involved in family members being predisposed to Felty's syndrome. An earlier article described a family in which the mother and 2 of her 5 children had Felty's syndrome, which suggested autosomal dominant inheritance (which has not otherwise been reported).

Question: Is Early-onset, autosomal dominant Alzheimer disease inherited ?
Answer: How is early-onset, autosomal dominant Alzheimer disease inherited? Early-onset, autosomal dominant Alzheimer disease is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with this condition has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is Punctate palmoplantar keratoderma type I inherited ?
Answer: How is punctate palmoplantar keratoderma type I inherited? Punctate palmoplantar keratoderma type I is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Autosomal dominant inheritance is when only one mutated copy of a disease-causing gene in each cell is sufficient for a person to be affected. An autosomal dominant condition may occur for the first time in an affected individual due to a new mutation, or may be inherited from an affected parent. When a person with an autosomal dominant disorder has a child, there is a 50% chance that his/her child will inherit the condition. Keratosis palmoplantaris papulosa shows age dependent penetrance and possibly variable penetrance as well. Age dependant penetrance means that the older the person is, the more likely they are to develop symptoms if they have inherited the disease causing gene mutation. Variable penetrance means that not everyone who inherits the gene mutation that causes keratosis palmoplantaris papulosa develops the signs and symptoms of the condition. However this person would still be at risk of passing the disease-causing mutation to their offspring.

Question: Is 2q37 deletion syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is 2q37 deletion syndrome inherited? Can it be a hidden trait? Most cases of 2q37 deletion syndrome are not inherited. They result from a chromosomal deletion that occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family. Rarely, affected individuals inherit a copy of chromosome 2 with a deleted segment from an unaffected parent. In these cases, one of the parents carries a chromosomal rearrangement between chromosome 2 and another chromosome. This rearrangement is called a balanced translocation. No genetic material is gained or lost in a balanced translocation, so these chromosomal changes usually do not cause any health problems. However, translocations can become unbalanced as they are passed to the next generation. Children who inherit an unbalanced translocation can have a chromosomal rearrangement with extra or missing genetic material. Some individuals with 2q37 deletion syndrome inherit an unbalanced translocation that deletes genetic material near the end of the long arm of chromosome 2, which results in birth defects and other health problems characteristic of this disorder.

Question: Is 47, XYY syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is 47, XYY syndrome inherited? 47, XYY syndrome is usually not inherited. It is typically due to a random event during the formation of a sperm cell. Recurrence of 47, XYY syndrome in a family is rare. The recurrence risk for siblings and other family members is not thought to be increased. Additionally, men with 47, XYY are not reported to have an increased risk for a child with a chromosome variation. People with personal questions about recurrence risks are encouraged to speak with a genetic counselor or other genetic professional.

Question: Is Myoclonic epilepsy with ragged red fibers inherited ?
Answer: Is myoclonic epilepsy associated with ragged red fibers genetic? If so, how is it inherited? MERRF is caused by mutations in the mitochondrial DNA and is transmitted by maternal inheritance. It is called maternal inheritance because a child inherits the great majority of their mitochondria from their mother through the egg.   The Centre for Genetics Education provides a detail description of maternal inheritance.  The mother of an individual with MERRF usually has a mitochondrial mutation and may or may not have symptoms.  Or, an individual with MERRF may have a mitochondrial mutation that just occurred in them, called a de novo mutation.  If the mother has the mitochondrial mutation, all of her children will inherit the mutation and may or may not have symptoms.  All of her daughters children will also inherit the mitochondrial mutation.  Her son's children are not at risk of inheriting the mutation.

Question: Is 48,XXYY syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Can 48,XXYY syndrome be inherited?

Question: Is Lafora disease inherited ?
Answer: Is Lafora disease inherited? Lafora disease is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Hemochromatosis inherited ?
Answer: Is hemochromatosis inherited? Hereditary hemochromatosis is inherited in an autosomal recessive or autosomal dominant manner, depending on the type a person has. Types 1, 2, and 3 are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. Affected people inherit one mutated copy of the gene from each parent, who is referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have any signs or symptoms (they are unaffected). When 2 carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected, a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent, and a 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier. Type 4 is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means having only one mutated copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause the condition. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% chance to inherit the mutated copy of the gene. In most cases, a person with type 4 hemochromatosis has one affected parent. Acquired hemochromatosis is not inherited. Neonatal hemochromatosis is also not inherited, but it does appear to be familial. A woman with an affected child has approximately an 80% chance to have another affected child. However, this likelihood of recurrence is not explained by normal inheritance patterns. The underlying cause of this type is not fully understood.

Question: Is Cerebellar degeneration inherited ?
Answer: Is cerebellar degeneration inherited? Cerebellar degeneration is associated with a variety of inherited and non-inherited conditions. One example of an inherited form of cerebellar degeneration is spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA), which refers to a group of conditions characterized by degenerative changes of the cerebellum, brain stem, and spinal cord. Depending on the type, SCA can be inherited in an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked manner. Other complex conditions such as multiple sclerosis and multisystem atrophy are also associated with cerebellar degeneration. These conditions are likely caused by the interaction of multiple genetic and environmental factors. Although complex conditions are not passed directly from parent to child, reports of familial forms exist. This suggests that a genetic susceptibility to these conditions can run in families. Many causes of cerebellar degeneration are acquired (non-genetic and non-inherited) including strokes, transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, chronic alcohol abuse and paraneoplastic disorders.

Question: Is Brachydactyly type B inherited ?
Answer: How is brachydactyly type B inherited? Brachydactyly type B is caused by mutations in the ROR2 gene. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Individuals with brachydactyly type B have a 50% chance of passing on this condition to their children.

Question: Is Dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency inherited? Dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (DLD) deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell to be affected. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not have any signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to be affected, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% to be unaffected and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus inherited ?
Answer: How is nephrogenic diabetes insipidus inherited? When nephrogenic diabetes insipidus results from mutations in the AVPR2 gene, the condition has an X-linked recessive pattern of inheritance. The AVPR2 gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation usually has to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. However, some females who carry a single mutated copy of the AVPR2 gene have features of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, including polyuria and polydipsia. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is 3-Hydroxyisobutyric aciduria inherited ?
Answer: Is 3-hydroxyisobutyric aciduria inherited? Cases of 3-hydroxyisobutyric aciduria thought to be caused by changes (mutations) in the ALDH6A1 gene are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Kienbock's disease inherited ?
Answer: Is Kienbock's disease inherited? There is currently no evidence that Kienbock's disease is inherited. However, the cause of Kienbock's disease is not known. It is possible that unidentified genetic factors contribute to the development of the condition.

Question: Is Neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy inherited ?
Answer: How is neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy inherited? This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Familial exudative vitreoretinopathy inherited ?
Answer: How is familial exudative vitreoretinopathy inherited? FEVR has different inheritance patterns depending on the gene involved. Most individuals have the autosomal dominant form of this condition, caused by mutations in the FZD4 or LRP5 gene. FEVR caused by LRP5 gene mutations can also have an autosomal recessive inheritance. When this condition is caused by mutations in the NDP gene, it has an X-linked pattern of inheritance.

Question: Is Wildervanck syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Wildervanck syndrome inherited? Wildervanck syndrome does not have a clear pattern of inheritance.  In most cases, only one person in a family is affected.  These cases are called isolated or sporadic because there is no family history of Wildervanck syndrome.  Because this syndrome occurs mostly in females, it is possible that this condition has X-linked dominant inheritance.  The lack of males with Wildervanck syndrome suggests that affected males have more severe features and do not survive to birth.

Question: Is Pyle disease inherited ?
Answer: Is Pyle disease inherited? Pyle disease in inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they often don't have any signs and symptoms of the condition. Some carriers (obligate heterozygotes) of Pyle disease show minor skeletal changes.

Question: Is Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, dermatosparaxis type inherited ?
Answer: Is Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, dermatosparaxis type inherited? Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, dermatosparaxis type is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Hereditary sensory neuropathy type IE inherited ?
Answer: How is hereditary sensory neuropathy type IE inherited? Hereditary sensory neuropathy type IE (HSNIE) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having only one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause features of the condition. When a person with a mutation that causes HSNIE has children, each child has a 50% (1/2) chance to inherit the mutated gene. A person who does not inherit the mutation from an affected parent is not at risk to pass the condition on to his/her children.

Question: Is Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency inherited? Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that in affected individuals, both copies of the DPYD gene in each cell (one inherited from each parent) have mutations. The mutations that cause DPD deficiency vary widely in severity; therefore, some people with 2 mutated copies of the gene may have signs and symptoms of the condition, while others may be asymptomatic. However, all individuals with 2 mutations are at risk for toxic reactions to fluoropyrimidine drugs. Individuals who carry one mutated copy of the disease-causing gene (including most parents of affected individuals) are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not have signs and symptoms of the condition. However, people with one mutated copy of the DPYD gene may still experience toxic reactions to fluoropyrimidine drugs. When 2 carriers for the same autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each parent, and a 25% risk to not have the condition and not be a carrier. A child of one carrier parent has a 50% risk to also be a carrier.

Question: Is Primary hyperoxaluria type 2 inherited ?
Answer: How is primary hyperoxaluria type 2 inherited? Primary hyperoxaluria type 2 is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Friedreich ataxia inherited ?
Answer: How is Friedreich ataxia inherited? Friedreich ataxia is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Tubular aggregate myopathy inherited ?
Answer: Is tubular aggregate myopathy genetic? It is evident from family history studies that the condition can be passed through families in either an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive fashion. Some cases appear to be due to dominant mutations in the STIM1 gene. Sporadic cases of tubular aggregate myopathy have also been reported. Sporadic is used to denote either a genetic disorder that occurs for the first time in a family due to a new mutation or the chance occurrence of a non-genetic disorder or abnormality that is not likely to recur in a family.

Question: Is Pierson syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Pierson syndrome inherited? Pierson syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. Affected people inherit one mutated copy of the gene from each parent, who is referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have any signs or symptoms (they are unaffected). When 2 carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a: 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier

Question: Is Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome inherited? Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome (GCPS) is often inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the GLI3 gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits a gene mutation or chromosomal abnormality from one affected parent. Other cases occur in people with no history of the condition in their family. A person with GCPS syndrome has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita inherited ?
Answer: How is spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita inherited? Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia (SEDC) is typically inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that one altered (mutated) gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases of SEDC do not result from inheriting it from a parent, however; the condition more commonly results from a random, new mutation in the gene occurring for the first time in an affected individual who does not have a history SEDC in the family. In most of these cases, the risk to have another child with the condition is comparable to the risk for an individual in the general population to have a child with the condition. A few cases of autosomal recessive forms of SEDC have been reported. Germline mosaicism has also been reported for this condition. In this case, the parent does not have the mutated gene in all the cells of the body (and is not affected), but only in some of the germ cells (sperm or egg cells). The recurrence risk for a parent with germline mosaicism to have another affected child is difficult to predict. For conditions with autosomal dominant inheritance, studies have demonstrated that the risk to have another affected child may be low (about 1%), moderate (about 6%), or higher (about 30%), depending on the proportion of germ cells with the mutation as well as the disorder itself.

Question: Is Blepharophimosis, ptosis, and epicanthus inversus syndrome type 1 inherited ?
Answer: If my daughter inherits BPES from me, will she definitely have the same type as me, or could she have the other type? More than 130 mutations (changes) in the FOXL2 gene have been found to cause BPES. It has been reported that mutations that lead to a significantly shortened FOXL2 protein often cause BPES type I (characterized by eyelid malformations and premature ovarian failure (POF)), while mutations that result in an extra long FOXL2 protein may cause BPES type II (which involves only eyelid malformations). However, in a study published in 2003 in the American Journal of Human Genetics, the authors discussed how their study was the first to demonstrate intra- and interfamilial phenotypic variability (i.e. both BPES types caused by the same mutation). They discuss how assigning an affected family a diagnosis of either BPES type I or II is not always possible because of this. The article also discusses a previous report of menstrual abnormalities and reduced female fertility in two families with BPES type II, suggesting overlap between both BPES types, as well as a report of a family with BPES type I in which the first generations of affected females are infertile while three affected young women in the youngest generation appear to have normal pelvic ultrasound and hormone levels. They do caution that in this family, the early age of the affected women may preclude an accurate prediction of whether they will have POF, since the onset of POF usually occurs at a later age. Approximately 12 percent of people with BPES do not have an identified FOXL2 gene mutation; the cause of the condition in these people is unknown, and therefore there is no information on whether there may be variation within families for these affected individuals.

Question: Is Renal oncocytoma inherited ?
Answer: Is a renal oncocytoma inherited?  Most renal oncocytomas are not inherited. They usually occur sporadically in people with no family history of tumors. However, in rare cases, they can occur in people with certain genetic syndromes such as tuberous sclerosis complex and Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome. Both of these conditions are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.

Question: Is Poland syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Poland syndrome inherited? Poland syndrome is rarely inherited and generally sporadic. Sporadic refers to the chance occurrence of a non-genetic disorder or abnormality that is not likely to recur in a family. In the few reported familial cases, researchers suggest that the condition may have stemmed from an inherited susceptibility to events such as interruption of blood flow that may predispose a person to the anomaly (i.e., make a person more likely to develop the anomaly).

Question: Is Anaplastic astrocytoma inherited ?
Answer: Are anaplastic astrocytomas inherited? Anaplastic astrocytomas are usually not inherited. These tumors typically occur sporadically, in people with no family history of astrocytomas. In most cases, the exact cause is unknown. Familial cases of isolated astrocytomas have been reported but are very rare. Astrocytomas can have a genetic link when they are associated with a few rare, inherited disorders. These include neurofibromatosis type I, Li-Fraumeni syndrome, Turcot syndrome, and tuberous sclerosis. Astrosytomas occur more frequently in people with one of these disorders. Like many other cancers, it is believed that isolated astrocytomas may occur due to a combination of genetic and environmental factors. This means that a person may carry a gene (or a combination of genes) that predisposes them to developing an astrocytoma, but it may not develop unless it is "triggered" by an environmental factor.

Question: Is Holt-Oram syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Holt-Oram syndrome inherited? Holt-Oram syndrome (HOS) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having only one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause signs and symptoms of the condition. In most cases, the mutation in the gene occurs for the first time in the affected person and is not inherited from a parent. When a mutation occurs for the first time, it is called a de novo mutation. This is what typically occurs when there is no family history of the condition. A de novo mutation is due to a random change in the DNA in an egg or sperm cell, or right after conception. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutated copy of the gene from an affected parent. In these cases, the symptoms and severity can differ from those of the affected parent.  When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the condition.

Question: Is Hepatic encephalopathy inherited ?
Answer: Is hepatic encephalopathy inherited? Hepatic encephalopathy is not an inherited condition, so an individual who has it cannot pass it on to his/her children. It is brought on by chronic liver failure, particularly in alcoholics with cirrhosis. Although there are many theories and possibilities regarding what exactly causes HE, it is thought that one of the main causes is the accumulation of ammonia in the blood, which the liver, damaged by alcoholic liver disease, cannot remove. Researchers have found that ammonia alters the expression of certain genes; the genes that may be affected carry instructions for brain proteins. When the instructions in these genes are not "followed" correctly by the body due to the altered expression of the genes, the cells in the brain can no longer function normally, which may contribute to the signs and symptoms of HE. However, the genes themselves are not changed in such a way that these changes are passed down to an individual's children.

Question: Is Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva inherited ?
Answer: How is fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva inherited? Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases of fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In only a small number of cases, an affected person has inherited the mutation from one affected parent.

Question: Is Russell-Silver syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Russell-Silver syndrome inherited? Most cases of Russell-Silver syndrome (RSS) are sporadic (not inherited), which means they occur in people with no family history of RSS. Less commonly, Russell-Silver syndrome is inherited. In some families, it appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having one "copy" of a genetic change in each cell is enough to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the genetic change from a parent. In other cases, the change occurs for the first time in an affected person. When a person with a genetic change that causes an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the genetic change. In other families, the condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a change in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. Affected people inherit one copy from each parent, who is referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have any signs or symptoms (they are unaffected). When 2 carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a: 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier

Question: Is Branchiootorenal syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is branchiootorenal syndrome inherited? Branchiootorenal syndrome may be inherited or occur sporadically. The inheritance pattern of branchiootorenal syndrome is autosomal dominant. Autosomal dominant inheritance is when one mutated copy of the gene that causes a disorder in each cell is needed for a person to be affected. Autosomal dominant conditions may occur for the first time in a person in a family due to a spontaneous gene mutation, or these conditions may be inherited from an affected parent. When a person with an autosomal dominant disorder has a child, there is a 50% chance that their child will inherit the condition.

Question: Is Epidermolysis bullosa inherited ?
Answer: How is epidermolysis bullosa inherited? Inherited epidermolysis bullosa (EB) may follow either an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive inheritance pattern, depending on the type and subtype of inherited EB in the affected person. Epidermolysis bullosa simplex (the most common type of EB) is mainly autosomal dominant, except for a few rare autosomal recessive subtypes. Dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (DEB) can be inherited in an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive manner, depending on the subtype present. However, dominant DEB is the second most common major type of EB. Junctional epidermolysis bullosa is autosomal recessive, although one article stated that an autosomal dominant form has recently been reported. Kindler syndrome is only inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. A condition is autosomal dominant if having only one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause symptoms of the condition. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the mutated copy of the gene from the affected parent. Many people with an autosomal dominant form of EB have an affected parent, but in some cases a mutation in the responsible gene occurs for the first time in a person with no family history of EB (called a de novo mutation). A person with a de novo mutation still has a 50% chance to pass the mutation on to each of his/her children. In autosomal recessive inheritance, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell to be affected. Typically, an affected person inherits one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene from each parent, who are referred to as carriers. Carriers usually do not have symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to be affected, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be an unaffected carrier like each parent, and a 25% risk to not be a carrier and not be affected. Epidermolysis bullosa acquisita (acquired EB) is a rare autoimmune disorder and is not inherited.

Question: Is Galloway-Mowat syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Galloway-Mowat syndrome inherited? Galloway-Mowat syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. Affected people inherit one mutated copy of the gene from each parent, who is referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have any signs or symptoms (they are unaffected). When 2 carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a: 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier

Question: Is Carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is carnitine-acylcarnitine inherited? Carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens inherited ?
Answer: How is congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens (CBAVD) inherited? When this condition is caused by mutations in the CFTR gene, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. This pattern of inheritance means that both copies of the gene in each cell have a mutation. Parents of a person with CBAVD each carry one CFTR mutation, but are usually unaffected (carriers). Men with CBAVD who choose to father children through assisted reproduction have an increased risk of having a child with cystic fibrosis. If congenital absence of the vas deferens is not caused by mutations in CFTR, the risk of having children with cystic fibrosis is not increased. The risk to siblings of a person with CBAVD depends on the affected person's CFTR gene mutation(s) and cannot readily be predicted without this information. Genetic testing is most informative when the CBAVD-causing mutations have been identified in the affected individual. Men with CBAVD sometimes have only one identifiable CFTR mutation, complicating the testing and interpretation of results in their family members. We recommend speaking with a genetics professional about risk to other family members as well as any appropriate genetic testing.

Question: Is Glycogen storage disease type 4 inherited ?
Answer: How is glycogen storage disease type 4 inherited? Glycogen storage disease type 4 is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that an individual must have 2 abnormal copies of the GBE1 gene to be affected (one abnormal copy inherited from each parent). Individuals with one abnormal copy of the GBE1 gene, such as the parents of an affected individual, are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not have signs or symptoms of an autosomal recessive condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition are having children, each of their children has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to be affected, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each parent, and a 25% chance to not be a carrier and not be affected.

Question: Is Fryns syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Fryns syndrome inherited? Although the exact cause of Fryns syndrome is not currently known (and no disease-causing gene has yet been identified), it is thought to be genetic because it tends to "run in families" and has features common to other genetic disorders. It appears to be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that both copies of the disease-causing gene in each cell of the body (one copy inherited from each parent) have mutations. The parents of an affected individual are referred to as carriers, who typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Dextrocardia with situs inversus inherited ?
Answer: Is dextrocardia with situs inversus inherited? In most cases of dextrocardia with situs inversus, a specific genetic cause has not been identified and inheritance patterns have not been confirmed. However, approximately 25% of affected people have primary ciliary dyskinesia, which is typically inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is VLCAD deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Is VLCAD deficiency inherited? VLCAD deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Alport syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Alport syndrome inherited? Alport syndrome can have different inheritance patterns. About 80 percent of cases are caused by mutations in the COL4A5 gene and are inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. This gene is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the COL4A5 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause kidney failure and other severe symptoms of the disorder. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in only one copy of the COL4A5 gene usually only results in hematuria, but some women experience more severe symptoms. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.

Question: Is Lupus inherited ?
Answer: Is lupus inherited? The Lupus Foundation of American has a page called Is lupus hereditary? that provides a good overview. They also have a Genetics page for all of their content tagged as related to genetics. Medscape Reference has an in-depth review of the genetics of lupus that was written for healthcare professionals but can be useful to anyone looking for detailed information. You may have to register to view the article, but registration is free.

Question: Is TARP syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is TARP syndrome inherited? TARP syndrome is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. This means that the mutated gene responsible for TARP syndrome (RBM10) is located on the X chromosome, and typically only affects males. Males have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome, while females have two X chromosomes. If a female has one mutated copy of RBM10 and one normal copy, she would typically be an unaffected carrier of this condition. Occasionally, female carriers of an X-linked recessive condition may have varying degrees of signs or symptoms of the condition; this is due to differences in X chromosome inactivation. When a female carrier of an X-linked condition has children, each daughter has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to also be a carrier, and a 50% risk to not be a carrier (and have 2 normal copies of the gene). Each son has a 50% risk to be affected and a 50% risk to be unaffected.

Question: Is Multifocal motor neuropathy inherited ?
Answer: Is multifocal motor neuropathy inherited? We are not aware of any evidence that multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) is inherited or of any reports of familial cases (occurring in more than one person in a family). Furthermore, to our knowledge, no specific genes known to be associated with MMN have been identified.

Question: Is Tourette syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Tourette syndrome inherited? Evidence from twin and family studies suggests that Tourette syndrome is an inherited disorder. Although early family studies suggested an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance (an autosomal dominant disorder is one in which only one copy of the defective gene, inherited from one parent, is necessary to produce the disorder), more recent studies suggest that the pattern of inheritance is much more complex. Although there may be a few genes with substantial effects, it is also possible that many genes with smaller effects and environmental factors may play a role in the development of Tourette syndrome. Genetic studies also suggest that some forms of ADHD and OCD are genetically related to Tourette syndrome, but there is less evidence for a genetic relationship between Tourette syndrome and other neurobehavioral problems that commonly co-occur with Tourette syndrome. Due to the complex nature of Tourette syndrome inheritance, affected families and those at risk may benefit from consulting with a genetics professional. Information about how to locate a genetics professional is provided in the Living With section.

Question: Is Hypophosphatasia inherited ?
Answer: How is hypophosphatasia inherited? Perinatal (onset before birth) and infantile hypophosphatasia (HPP) are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene (ALPL) in each cell. Affected people inherit one mutated copy of the gene from each parent, who is referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have any signs or symptoms (they are unaffected). When 2 carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a: 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier. The milder forms, especially adult HPP and odontohypophosphatasia, may be inherited in an autosomal recessive or autosomal dominant manner - depending on the effect the ALPL mutation has on enzyme activity. In autosomal dominant inheritance, having a mutation in only one copy of the ALPL gene in each cell is enough to cause features of the condition. When a person with a mutation that causes an autosomal dominant HPP has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit that mutation. Most people with autosomal dominant HPP have inherited the mutation from a parent who may or may not have symptoms. Not all people with a mutation that causes autosomal dominant HPP develop symptoms of the condition. While it is possible to have autosomal dominant HPP due to a new mutation that was not inherited (a de novo mutation), this has never been reported in HPP.

Question: Is Mosaic trisomy 9 inherited ?
Answer: Is mosaic trisomy 9  inherited? Mosaic trisomy 9 is usually not inherited. It often occurs sporadically as a random event during the formation of the reproductive cells (egg and sperm) or as the fertilized egg divides. In rare cases, mosaic trisomy 9 may be inherited from a parent with a chromosomal rearrangement called a "pericentric inversion." This occurs when a segment of chromosome 9 has broken off in two places, swiveled round 180 degrees and reinserted itself into the chromosome. In these cases, the parent has a "balanced" rearrangement, meaning the piece of chromosome is in a different order but no genetic material is gained or lost. Carriers of a balanced rearrangement typically to not have any symptoms or health problems. However, they may be at an increased risk of having children with an abnormal number or chromosomes.

Question: Is Septo-optic dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: Is septo-optic dysplasia inherited?

Question: Is Thalassemia inherited ?
Answer: How is thalassemia inherited? In general, thalassemia is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner; however, the inheritance can be quite complex as multiple genes can influence the production of hemoglobin. Most people affected by beta thalassemia have mutations in both copies of the HBB gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition; although some carriers of beta thalassemia develop mild anemia. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier. The inheritance of alpha thalassemia is complicated by the fact that mutations in two different genes (HBA1 and HBA2) are associated with the condition. People have two copies of the HBA1 gene and two copies of the HBA2 gene in each cell. For each gene, one copy is inherited from the mother and one is inherited from the father. If each parent is missing at least one gene copy, their children are at risk for having alpha thalassemia. However, the exact risk and the severity of each child's condition depends on how many gene copies are lost (deleted) and which combination of the HBA1 and HBA2 genes are affected.

Question: Is Stiff person syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is stiff person syndrome inherited? Genetic factors involved in causing stiff person syndrome have not been established.  While most cases appear to occur in an isolated manner, some familial cases have been reported. The fact that stiff person syndrome can occur with other autoimmune disorders suggests that genetics may play a role.

Question: Is Lynch syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Lynch syndrome an inherited condition? Lynch syndrome cancer risk is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one inherited copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase cancer risk. It is important to note that people inherit an increased risk of cancer, not the disease itself. Not all people who inherit mutations in these genes will develop cancer.

Question: Is Prader-Willi syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Prader-Willi syndrome inherited? Most cases of Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) are not inherited and are due to random events during the formation of egg or sperm cells, or in early fetal development. This is usually the case when PWS is caused by a deletion in the paternal chromosome 15, or by maternal uniparental disomy. However in rare cases, a genetic change responsible for PWS can be inherited. The risk to family members of a person with PWS depends on the genetic cause of the condition in the affected person. Because the various genetic causes of PWS are complex, people seeking information about specific risks to themselves or family members are encouraged to speak with a genetics professional. More information about the causes of PWS can be viewed on our Web site here.

Question: Is Essential tremor inherited ?
Answer: Is essential tremor inherited? About half of all cases of essential tremor appear to occur because of a genetic mutation. This is referred to as familial tremor. In these cases, essential tremor appears to be passed through generations in families, but the inheritance pattern varies. In many affected families, the condition appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In other families, the inheritance pattern is unclear. Essential tremor may also appear in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In some families, there are individuals who have essential tremor while others have other movement disorders, such as involuntary muscle tensing (dystonia). The potential genetic connection between essential tremor and other movement disorders is an active area of research..

Question: Is Diffuse gastric cancer inherited ?
Answer: Can diffuse gastric cancer be inherited? Diffuse gastric cancer can be inherited or can happen sporadically in a family. Sporadic means that the cancer occurred randomly for the first time in a individual and was not inherited from a parent. Hereditary diffuse gastric cancer (HDGC) is caused by mutations in the CDH1 gene. Individuals with a CDH1 mutation typically develop cancer before age 40.

Question: Is Trisomy 18 inherited ?
Answer: Is trisomy 18 inherited? Most cases of trisomy 18 are not inherited and occur randomly due to errors in the formation of eggs or sperm. If an egg or sperm gains an extra copy of chromosome 18 during cell division and contributes to a pregnancy, the embryo will have an extra chromosome 18 (trisomy) in each cell of the body. Mosaic trisomy 18 (when some body cells have trisomy 18 and some have a normal chromosome make-up), is also typically not inherited. Mosaic trisomy 18 is also due to an error in cell division, but the error occurs early in embryonic development. About 5% of affected people have a mosaic form of trisomy 18. Partial trisomy 18 (when only part of chromosome 18 is present in 3 copies) can be inherited. An unaffected parent can carry a rearrangement of genetic material between chromosome 18 and another chromosome. This rearrangement is called a balanced translocation because there is no extra or missing genetic material. However, a person with a balanced translocation has an increased risk with each pregnancy to have a child with trisomy 18.

Question: Is Adiposis dolorosa inherited ?
Answer: Is adiposis dolorosa inherited? Most cases of adiposis dolorosa are sporadic (not inherited). This means that it usually occurs in people with no family history of the condition. Adiposis dolorosa has rarely been reported to occur in more than one family member. In some of these cases, it appears to have been inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. In these cases, when an affected person has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the gene causing the condition. However, no associated genes have been identified.

Question: Is Mitochondrial genetic disorders inherited ?
Answer: Are mitochondrial genetic disorders inherited? Mitochondrial genetic disorder can be inherited in a variety of manners depending on the type of condition and the location of the disease-causing change (mutation). Those caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA are transmitted by maternal inheritance. Only egg cells (not sperm cells) contribute mitochondria to the next generation, so only females can pass on mitochondrial mutations to their children. Conditions resulting from mutations in mitochondrial DNA can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females. In some cases, the condition results from a new (de novo) mutation in a mitochondrial gene and occurs in a person with no history of the condition in the family. Mitochondrial genetic disorders caused by mutations in nuclear DNA may follow an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked pattern of inheritance. In autosomal dominant conditions, one mutated copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause signs or symptoms of the condition. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with an autosomal dominant condition has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child. When a condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, a person must have a change in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the condition is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes (the Y chromosome is the other sex chromosome). Women have two X chromosomes and men have an X and a Y chromosome. X-linked conditions can be X-linked dominant or X-linked recessive. The inheritance is X-linked dominant if one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Women with an X-linked dominant condition have a 50% chance of passing the condition on to a son or a daughter with each pregnancy. Men with an X-linked dominant condition will pass the condition on to all of their daughters and none of their sons. The inheritance is X-linked recessive if a gene on the X chromosome causes the condition in men with one gene mutation (they have only one X chromosome) and in females with two gene mutations (they have two X chromosomes). A woman with an X-linked condition will pass the mutation on to all of her sons and daughters. This means that all of her sons will have the condition and all of her daughters will be carriers. A man with an X-linked recessive condition will pass the mutation to all of his daughters (carriers) and none of his sons.

Question: Is Wilson disease inherited ?
Answer: Is Wilson disease inherited? Wilson disease is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Townes-Brocks syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Townes-Brocks syndrome genetic? Yes. Townes-Brocks syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion, which means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In about 50% of cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. The other 50% have the condition as a result of a new (de novo) mutation.

Question: Is Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency inherited? Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency (SSADH) is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome inherited? Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome (NCBRS) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having a change (mutation) in only one of the two copies of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause features of the condition. All known cases of NCBRS have been sporadic. This means it is thought that the mutation occurred for the first time in each affected person (called a de novo mutation). There have not been reports of NCBRS being inherited from a parent, or recurring in any family (with the exception of one pair of identical twins).

Question: Is Isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (IBD deficiency) inherited? IBD deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Duchenne muscular dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: How do people inherit Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy? Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy are inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation must be present in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A striking characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons. In about two thirds of cases, an affected male inherits the mutation from a mother who carries an altered copy of the DMD gene. The other one third of cases probably result from new mutations in the gene. In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one mutated copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. She can pass on the altered gene, but usually does not experience signs and symptoms of the disorder. Occasionally, however, females who carry a DMD mutation may have muscle weakness and cramping. These symptoms are typically milder than the severe muscle weakness and atrophy seen in affected males. Females who carry a DMD mutation also have an increased risk of developing heart abnormalities including dilated cardiomyopathy.

Question: Is Hypokalemic periodic paralysis inherited ?
Answer: How is hypokalemic periodic paralysis inherited? This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.

Question: Is Hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer inherited ?
Answer: How is hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer inherited? Hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer (HLRCC) is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means that having one mutated copy of the gene in each cell is enough to cause symptoms of the condition. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutated copy of the gene from an affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and that occur for the first time in in the affected individual. When an individual with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the mutated gene. This is the case regardless of which parent has the condition.

Question: Is Merkel cell carcinoma inherited ?
Answer: Is Merkel cell carcinoma inherited? To our knowledge, there currently is no evidence that Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is inherited. While DNA changes (mutations) found in the cells of MCC tumors can lead to MCC, these types of mutations are not inherited from a person's parents. They are referred to as somatic mutations and occur during a person's lifetime, often as random events. Sometimes, something in the environment can lead to a somatic mutation, such as long-term sun exposure or infection with the Merkel cell polyomavirus. These are known risk factors for developing MCC.

Question: Is Norum disease inherited ?
Answer: How is Norum disease inherited? Norum disease is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Sporadic cases have also been reported.

Question: Is Multiple familial trichoepithelioma inherited ?
Answer: How is multiple familial trichoepithelioma inherited? Susceptibility to multiple familial trichoepithelioma has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. This means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell increases the risk that a person will develop the condition. However, a second, non-inherited mutation is needed for development of the skin tumors characteristic of this condition.

Question: Is Dominant dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa inherited ?
Answer: How is dominant dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa inherited? Dominant dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (DDEB) has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of the gene with the mutation in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. About 70 percent of individuals with DDEB have inherited a COL7A1 mutation from an affected parent. The remaining 30 percent have the condition as a result of a new (de novo) mutation in the COL7A1 gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Regardless of whether an individual with an autosomal dominant condition has inherited the mutation or has a new mutation, each child of the affected individual has a 50% (1 in 2) chance of also having the condition, and a 50% chance of not having the condition.

Question: Is Achondroplasia inherited ?
Answer: Is achondroplasia inherited? Most cases of achondroplasia are not inherited. When it is inherited, it follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. About 80% of individuals who have achondroplasia have parents with normal stature and are born with the condition as a result of a new (de novo) gene alteration (mutation). Each individual with achondroplasia has a 50% chance, with each pregnancy, to pass on the mutated gene.

Question: Is Hereditary diffuse leukoencephalopathy with spheroids inherited ?
Answer: How is hereditary diffuse leukoencephalopathy with spheroids (HDLS) inherited? HDLS is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is 17q23.1q23.2 microdeletion syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is 17q23.2q23.2 microdeletion syndrome inherited? Parental FISH testing in most of the reported cases confirmed a de novo origin, meaning that the deletion was new to the family.

Question: Is Turner syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Turner syndrome inherited? Most cases of Turner syndrome are not inherited. Most commonly, Turner syndrome occurs due to a random event during the formation of an egg or sperm cell in a parent (prior to conception). For example, if an egg or sperm cell mistakenly loses a sex chromosome, and joins at conception with an egg or sperm containing an X chromosome, the resulting child will have a single X chromosome in each cell. Mosaic Turner syndrome, occurring when a person has some cells with one X chromosome and some cells with two sex chromosomes, is also not inherited. This also occurs due to a random event, during early fetal development rather than before conception. In rare cases, Turner syndrome may be caused by a missing piece (partial deletion) of the X chromosome. A deletion can be inherited from a parent. Genetic testing of an affected fetus or child can identify the type of Turner syndrome present and may help to estimate the risk of recurrence. People with questions about genetic testing or recurrence risks for Turner syndrome are encouraged to speak with a genetic counselor or other genetics professional.

Question: Is Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease inherited ?
Answer: How is Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease inherited?

Question: Is MTHFR gene mutation inherited ?
Answer: How is a MTHFR gene mutation inherited? Because each person has two copies of the MTHFR gene, people can inherit one copy of the MTHFR mutation or two copies (one from each parent). People who inherit two copies of a common MTHFR gene mutation (for example two C677T mutations or a C677T mutation and a A1298C mutation) may have an increased risk for certain conditions such as coronary artery disease, blood clots, and stroke when compared to those without the mutations and elevated homocystine levels. Coronary artery disease, blood clots, and stroke are all complex conditions and are caused by a combination of many genetic and environmental factors. Some rare MTHFR gene mutations can lead to homocystinuria, which is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Visit our "Homocystinuria due to MTHFR deficiency" webpage.

Question: Is Juvenile primary lateral sclerosis inherited ?
Answer: How is juvenile primary lateral sclerosis inherited? Juvenile primary lateral sclerosis is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Anencephaly inherited ?
Answer: Is anencephaly inherited? Most cases of anencephaly are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no family history of anencephaly or other neural tube defects (NTDs). In some cases, it may be associated with a chromosome abnormality, a severe malformation syndrome, or disruption of the amniotic membrane. A small portion of cases have appeared to be familial, but it often does not have a clear inheritance pattern. In isolated populations, anencephaly has been suspected to be due to a single gene. In Iranian Jews, who have high rates of consanguinity (mating with family members), it is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Parents who have had a child with anencephaly are at an increased risk to have another affected child (compared with the risk in the general population). Because most cases are believed to be multifactorial (due to interaction of genetic and environmental factors), the recurrence risk is estimated to be between 2% and 5% after a single case. If anencephaly is known to be associated with an underlying disorder, the recurrence risk may depend on that of the underlying disorder. For women who have previously had a fetus or infant with anencephaly, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends increasing the intake of folic acid to 4mg per day beginning at least one month prior to conception. People who have had a pregnancy or child with anencephaly or another NTD, and have questions about future risk, are encouraged to speak with a genetic counselor or other genetics professional.

Question: Is Glioblastoma inherited ?
Answer: Is glioblastoma inherited? Most glioblastomas are not inherited. They usually occur sporadically in people with no family history of tumors. However, they can rarely occur in people with certain genetic syndromes such as neurofibromatosis type 1, Turcot syndrome and Li Fraumeni syndrome. All of these conditions are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.

Question: Is Medullary cystic kidney disease inherited ?
Answer: How is medullary cystic kidney disease inherited? The 2 types of MCKD are both inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that any individual with the condition has a 50% chance of passing on the disease causing mutation to any of their children.

Question: Is Hereditary spherocytosis inherited ?
Answer: How is hereditary spherocytosis inherited? About 75 percent of cases of hereditary spherocytosis are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner, which means that one copy of the altered (mutated) gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. The mutated gene may be inherited from an affected parent or may occur for the first time in the affected individual. Each child of an individual with an autosomal dominant form of hereditary spherocytosis has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the mutated gene.  Less commonly, hereditary spherocytosis is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, which means that both copies of the disease-causing gene in each cell have mutations. Parents of a person with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have signs and symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of the same autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have to condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each parent, and a 25% risk to not have the condition and not be a carrier. In some of the cases that result from new mutations in people with no history of the condition in their family, the inheritance pattern may be unclear.

Question: Is Chandler's syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Chandler's syndrome inherited? While the cause of Chandler's syndrome is unknown, at this time there is no evidence that it is inherited (hereditary).

Question: Is Mucopolysaccharidosis type I inherited ?
Answer: How is mucopolysaccharidosis I (MPS I) inherited? MPS I is inherited from both parents in an autosomal recessive pattern.

Question: Is Leukonychia totalis inherited ?
Answer: Is leukonychia totalis inherited? Leukonychia totalis can be inherited in either an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive manner. It may also occur as part of various underlying conditions or abnormalities, some of which have their own specific genetic cause(s) and inheritance patterns. In some cases, the condition is idiopathic (of unknown cause). Autosomal dominant inheritance means that having a change (mutation) in only one copy of the disease-causing gene is enough to cause signs or symptoms. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the mutated copy of the gene. Autsomal recessive inheritance means that a person must have mutations in both copies of the disease-causing gene to have the condition. Usually, one mutated copy is inherited from each parent, who are each referred to as a carrier.  Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have any signs or symptoms.

Question: Is Chorea-acanthocytosis inherited ?
Answer: How do people inherit chorea-acanthocytosis? Chorea-acanthocytosis is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Platelet storage pool deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Is platelet storage pool deficiency inherited? Platelet storage pool deficiency refers to a group of conditions that can be acquired (non-inherited) or inherited. Hereditary forms of the condition may be inherited in an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked manner. In autosomal dominant conditions, one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause signs or symptoms of the condition. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the mutated copy of the gene from the affected parent. When a condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, a person must have a change in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the condition is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes (the Y chromosome is the other sex chromosome). Women have two X chromosomes and men have an X and a Y chromosome. X-linked conditions can be X-linked dominant or X-linked recessive. The inheritance is X-linked dominant if one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Women with an X-linked dominant condition have a 50% chance of passing the condition on to a son or a daughter with each pregnancy. Men with an X-linked dominant condition will pass the condition on to all of their daughters and none of their sons. The inheritance is X-linked recessive if a gene on the X chromosome causes the condition in men with one gene mutation (they have only one X chromosome) and in females with two gene mutations (they have two X chromosomes). A woman with an X-linked condition will pass the mutation on to all of her sons and daughters. This means that all of her sons will have the condition and all of her daughters will be carriers. A man with an X-linked recessive condition will pass the mutation to all of his daughters (carriers) and none of his sons.

Question: Is Leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter inherited ?
Answer: How is leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter inherited? Leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene to be affected. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not have signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Best vitelliform macular dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: How is Best vitelliform macular dystrophy inherited? Best vitelliform macular dystrophy (BVMD) is most commonly inherited in an autosomal dominant manner, although a few cases with autosomal recessive inheritance have been reported. In autosomal dominant inheritance, having one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause symptoms of the condition. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the mutated gene. Most people with BVMD have an affected parent, but some people have the condition as the result of a new mutation that occurred for the first time. Autosomal recessive inheritance means that a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell to be affected. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Hirschsprung's disease inherited ?
Answer: Is Hirschsprung's disease inherited? Hirschsprung's disease (HSCR) usually occurs occurs by itself without other symptoms and is called isolated HSCR. Isolated HSCR has multifactorial inheritance, which means that multiple genes interact with environmental factors to cause the condition. When someone has a child with isolated HSCR, the overall risk to have another child with the condition is 4%. There are some factors that can change the risk. For example, the risk is higher if the sibling has long-segment disease rather than short-segment disease. Also males are more likely than females to develop HSCR. Another factor is if the siblings have the same or different parents.  If HSCR occurs as part of a genetic syndrome, then it is inherited in a specific pattern. For example, the inheritance may be autosomal recessive, autosomal dominant, or X-linked recessive, depending on the exact cause of the syndrome.  Individuals who are interested in learning about their personal risks or risks to family members should speak with their health care provider or a genetics professional.

Question: Is Binswanger's disease inherited ?
Answer: Is Binswanger's disease an inherited condition? Although Binswanger's disease is not considered an inherited condition, genetics may play a role in many of the conditions and risk factors that are associated with the disease (i.e. atherosclerosis, blood clots).

Question: Is Wolfram syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Wolfram syndrome inherited? Wolfram syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Peutz-Jeghers syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Peutz-Jeghers syndrome inherited? Peutz-Jeghers syndrome (PJS) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with PJS has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is Sotos syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Sotos syndrome inherited? Sotos syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having a mutation in only one of the 2 copies of the responsible gene (the NSD1 gene) is enough to cause signs and symptoms of the condition. 95% of people with Sotos syndrome do not inherit the condition from a parent. In these cases, the condition is the result of a new (de novo) mutation that occurred for the first time in the affected person. Only about 5% of people with Sotos syndrome have an affected parent and inherit the condition from that parent. If a parent of an affected person with an identified NSD1 mutation does not have any features of Sotos syndrome, that parent is very unlikely to have a mutation in the gene. This can be confirmed with genetic testing if the mutation has been identified in the child. If a person with Sotos syndrome has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the mutation. However, the specific features and severity can vary from one generation to the next, so it is not possible to predict how a child will be affected.

Question: Is Focal dermal hypoplasia inherited ?
Answer: How is this condition inherited? Focal dermal hypoplasia is caused by mutations in the PORCN gene and is inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Many cases of focal dermal hypoplasia result from a new mutation and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family For a woman affected with focal dermal hypoplasia, the theoretical risk of passing the mutation to each of her offspring is 50%; however, many males with this condition do not survive. In addition, there are cases in which a woman may have the focal dermal hypoplasia mutation in some but not all of her egg cells, a condition known as germline mosaicism. In this case the risk of passing along the mutation may be as high as 50% depending on the level of mosaicism. Males with focal dermal hypoplasia typically have the mutation in some but not all of their cells. The risk that a male with FDH will pass the condition on to his daughters may be as high as 100%; men do not pass this condition on to their sons. We recommend discussing specific concerns with a genetics professional, who can help you understand how this condition might be inherited in your family. Click on the following link for resources for finding a genetics professional.

Question: Is Familial isolated hyperparathyroidism inherited ?
Answer: How is familial isolated hyperparathyroidism inherited? Familial isolated hyperparathyroidism (FIHP) is typically inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having only one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause signs or symptoms of the condition. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the mutated copy of the gene from the affected parent.

Question: Is Langerhans cell histiocytosis inherited ?
Answer: Is Langerhans cell histiocytosis inherited? Although Langerhans cell histiocytosis is generally considered a sporadic, non-hereditary condition, it has reportedly affected more than one individual in a family in a very limited number of cases (particularly identical twins).

Question: Is Angelman syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How might Angelman syndrome be inherited? Most cases of Angelman syndrome are not inherited, particularly those caused by a deletion in the maternal chromosome 15 or by paternal uniparental disomy. These genetic changes occur as random events during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) or in early embryonic development. In these instances, people typically have no history of the disorder in their family. Rarely, a genetic change responsible for Angelman syndrome can be inherited. For example, it is possible for a mutation in the UBE3A gene or in the nearby region of DNA that controls gene activation to be passed from one generation to the next.

Question: Is Congenital radio-ulnar synostosis inherited ?
Answer: How is congenital radio-ulnar synostosis inherited? Congenital radio-ulnar synostosis appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner in some cases. This means that one mutated copy of the disease-causing gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. The mutated gene may occur for the first time in an affected individual, or it may be inherited from an affected parent. Each child of an individual with an autosomal dominant condition has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the mutated copy of the gene. Congenital radio-ulnar synostosis may also occur with a variety of other abnormalities and may be associated with a chromosome abnormality or genetic syndrome. In these cases, the inheritance pattern may depend upon that of the underlying genetic abnormality. Some genetic abnormalities that have been reported in association with this condition include Apert syndrome, Carpenter syndrome, arthrogryposis, Treacher Collins syndrome, Williams syndrome, Klinefelter syndrome, and Holt-Oram syndrome. Congenital radio-ulnar synostosis may also occur sporadically as an isolated abnormality, in which case the cause may be unknown.

Question: Is Harlequin ichthyosis inherited ?
Answer: How is harlequin ichthyosis inherited? Harlequin ichthyosis is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Dominant optic atrophy inherited ?
Answer: How is dominant optic atrophy inherited? Dominant optic atrophy (DOA) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having a change (mutation) in only one copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause features of the condition. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutated gene from a parent. In other cases, the mutation occurs for the first time in an affected person and is not inherited from a parent (a de novo mutation). When a person with a mutation that causes DOA has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the mutation. While a mutation responsible for DOA can cause the condition, not all people with a mutation will develop DOA. This means that DOA has reduced penetrance. There are likely to be other genetic and environmental factors that influence whether a person with a mutation will develop features of DOA. Additionally, not all people who do develop features will be affected the same way, and severity can vary - even within families. This phenomenon is known as variable expressivity. People with questions about genetic risks or genetic testing for themselves or family members are encouraged to speak with a genetics professional.

Question: Is Buschke Ollendorff syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Buschke Ollendorff syndrome inherited? Buschke Ollendorff syndrome (BOS) is caused by mutations in the LEMD3 gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that only one changed (mutated) copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient for a person to be affected by the condition. An affected individual may have inherited a mutated copy of the LEMD3 gene from an affected parent, or they may have been born with a new (de novo) mutation. There is a 50% (1 in 2) chance for each child of an affected individual to inherit the mutated gene, and a 50% chance for each child  to not inherit the mutated gene. It has been proposed that the inheritance of BOS shows incomplete penetrance. Penetrance refers to the proportion of people with a particular genetic change (such as a mutation in a specific gene) who exhibit signs and symptoms of a genetic disorder. If some people with the mutation do not develop features of the disorder, the condition is said to have reduced (or incomplete) penetrance. Reduced penetrance probably results from a combination of genetic, environmental, and lifestyle factors, many of which are unknown. This phenomenon can make it challenging for genetics professionals to interpret a persons family medical history and predict the risk of passing a genetic condition to future generations. This means that not all individuals who have a new or inherited mutation in the LEMD3 gene will necessarily develop signs and symptoms of BOS.

Question: Is Castleman disease inherited ?
Answer: Is Castleman disease inherited? Although the exact underlying cause of Castleman disease is unknown, it is thought to occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition.

Question: Is Congenital central hypoventilation syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is congenital central hypoventilation syndrome inherited? Congenital central hypoventilation syndrome (CCHS) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having a change (mutation) in only one copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause features of the condition. The genetics of CCHS can be complex. Most people with CCHS have a new (de novo) mutation in the responsible gene (the PHOX2B gene). De novo mutations occur for the first time in the affected person and are not inherited from a parent. Some people with CCHS have a parent with the condition, and inherit the mutation from that parent. In some cases, an asymptomatic parent of a person with symptoms has a PHOX2B mutation in some of their germ cells (egg or sperm cells, not body cells). This is called germline mosaicism. Some of these parents also have a PHOX2B mutation in some of their body cells. This is called somatic mosaicism. Germline mosaicism with or without somatic mosaicism is present in about 25% of asymptomatic parents of people with CCHS. Parents with mosaicism should have a comprehensive assessment to determine if any features of CCHS are present. It is also recommended that parents of a person with a presumed de novo mutation have genetic testing for the presence of the mutation, including testing that detects mosaicism at low levels.

Question: Is Erythropoietic protoporphyria inherited ?
Answer: How is erythropoietic protoporphyria (EPP) inherited? EPP is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. In most cases, affected individuals have one severe (loss-of-function) mutation that is inherited from one parent, and another weak (low-expression) mutation that is inherited from the other parent. In a small number of cases, an affected individual has two loss-of-function mutations. When 2 carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a: 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent 25% (1 in 4) chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier

Question: Is Fine-Lubinsky syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Fine-Lubinsky syndrome inherited? Almost all people reported to have FineLubinsky syndrome (FLS) have been the only affected people in their families (these cases were sporadic). There has been one report of an affected brother and sister with unaffected parents, suggesting autosomal recessive inheritance. Additional reports are needed to identify a possible genetic cause for the condition. Parents of a child with FLS should be aware that if the condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, each of their children has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to be affected. Although karyotypes (pictures of chromosomes) have been reported as normal in affected people, the presence of a very small chromosomal rearrangement has not been excluded as a possible cause of FLS.

Question: Is Mowat-Wilson syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Mowat-Wilson inherited? Mowat-Wilson syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases of Mowat-Wilson syndrome result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene that occur during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Usher syndrome, type 1E inherited ?
Answer: How is Usher syndrome inherited? Usher syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that a person must have a change (mutation) in both copies of the disease-causing gene in each cell to have Usher syndrome. One mutated copy is typically inherited from each parent, who are each referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition usually do not have any signs or symptoms. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent, and a 25% chance to not be a carrier and not be affected.

Question: Is Olivopontocerebellar atrophy inherited ?
Answer: Is olivopontocerebellar atrophy inherited? Olivopontocerebellar atrophy (OPCA) may be associated with conditions that are inherited (genetic), or it may occur sporadically. Genetic forms of OPCA may be inherited in an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked manner. The inheritance pattern depends on the specific genetic cause. For example, OPCA associated with spinocerebellar ataxia 3 is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Most types of inherited OPCA are associated with spinocerebellar ataxias that follow autosomal dominant inheritance.   Sporadic OPCA refers to when the condition occurs for unknown reasons, or when there is no evidence of a genetic basis. Some people with sporadic OPCA will eventually develop multiple system atrophy (MSA). People with a personal or family history of OPCA are encouraged to speak with a genetic counselor or other genetics professional. A genetics professional can evaluate the family history; address questions and concerns; assess recurrence risks; and facilitate genetic testing if desired.

Question: Is Abetalipoproteinemia inherited ?
Answer: How is abetalipoproteinemia inherited? Abetalipoproteinemia is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. Affected people inherit one mutated copy of the gene from each parent, who is referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have any signs or symptoms (they are unaffected). When 2 carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a: 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier

Question: Is Familial Mediterranean fever inherited ?
Answer: How is familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) inherited? FMF is almost always inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier. As many as 1 in 5 people of Sephardic (non-Ashkenazi) Jewish, Armenian, Arab and Turkish heritage are carriers for FMF.  In rare cases, this condition appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with FMF inherited in an autosomal dominant manner has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child. In some cases, FMF may appear to be autosomal dominant when it is actually autosomal recessive. This phenomenon is called pseudodominance. This may happen in families if one parent is an unaffected, unknown carrier (with 1 mutation) and the other parent is affected (with 2 mutations). It may appear that an affected child inherited FMF from only the affected parent, when in fact he/she inherited one mutation from each parent.

Question: Is Autoimmune hemolytic anemia inherited ?
Answer: Is autoimmune hemolytic anemia inherited? In many cases, the cause of autoimmune hemolytic anemia remains unknown. Some researchers believe that there are multiple factors involved, including genetic and environmental influences (multifactorial). In a very small number of cases, autoimmune hemolytic anemia appears to run in families. In these cases, it appears to follow an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. If you have concerns about the specific risks in your family, we encourage you to consult with a genetics professional.

Question: Is Cushing's syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Cushing's syndrome inherited? Most cases of Cushing's syndrome are not inherited. However, Cushing's syndrome rarely occurs in inherited conditions characterized by the development of tumors of one or more endocrine gland. These conditions may include: Primary pigmented micronodular adrenal disease, in which children or young adults develop small cortisol-producing tumors of the adrenal glands, Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1), in which hormone-secreting tumors of the parathyroid glands, pancreas, and pituitary develop. Cushing's syndrome in MEN1 may be due to pituitary or adrenal tumors.

Question: Is Chromosome 3p- syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is chromosome 3p- syndrome inherited? In most cases, chromosome 3p- syndrome occurs for the first time in the affected person (de novo mutation). However, the deletion is rarely inherited from a parent. In these cases, the deletion is passed down in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that a person with chromosome 3p- syndrome has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing the condition on to his or her child. In theory, it is possible for a parent to not have the deletion in their chromosomes on a blood test, but have the deletion in some of their egg or sperm cells only. This phenomenon is called germline mosaicism. In these rare cases, it would be possible to have another child with the deletion. To our knowledge, this has not been reported with chromosome 3p- syndrome. People interested in learning more about genetic risks to themselves or family members should speak with a genetics professional.

Question: Is Epidermolytic ichthyosis inherited ?
Answer: How is epidermolytic ichthyosis inherited? Many cases of epidermolytic ichthyosis (EI) are sporadic. This means they result from a new mutation in one of the responsible genes (KRT1 or KRT10), in people with no family history of EI. However, while people with sporadic EI did not inherit the condition from a parent, they may still pass the condition on to their children. Inherited cases of EI usually have an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. This means that having a mutation in only one copy of KRT1 or KRT10 in each cell is enough to cause features of the condition. When a person with a mutation that causes an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit that mutation. Typically, EI due to a new mutation will follow autosomal dominant inheritance in subsequent generations. Very rarely, EI caused by mutations in the KRT10 gene is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. Affected people inherit one mutated copy of the gene from each parent, who is referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have any signs or symptoms (they are unaffected). When 2 carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a: 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Pilomatrixoma inherited ?
Answer: Is a pilomatrixoma inherited? Most isolated (without other signs and symptoms) pilomatrixomas are not inherited. However, more than one family member can rarely be affected, which suggests there may be a hereditary component in some cases. Rarely, pilomatrixomas occur in people with certain genetic syndromes such as Gardner syndrome, myotonic dystrophy, and Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome. In these cases, affected people usually have other characteristic signs and symptoms of the associated condition. All three of these conditions are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Osteogenesis imperfecta inherited ?
Answer: How is osteogenesis imperfecta inherited? Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is most commonly inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having only one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause features of OI. The mutated copy of the gene may be inherited from an affected parent, or it may occur for the first time in an affected person (a de novo mutation). When a person with an autosomal dominant form of OI has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance of inheriting the mutated gene. If the child inherits the mutated gene, the child's symptoms may be milder, or more severe, than those of the parent. Less commonly, OI is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that both copies of the responsible gene in each cell must have a mutation for a person to be affected. The parents of a person with an autosomal recessive condition typically are unaffected, but each carry one mutated copy of the gene. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive form of OI have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected, a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be a carrier like each parent, and a 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Hypophosphatemic rickets inherited ?
Answer: How is hypophosphatemic rickets inherited? Hypophosphatemic rickets is most often inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. This means that the gene responsible for the condition is located on the X chromosome, and having only one mutated copy of the gene is enough to cause the condition. Because males have only one X chromosome (and one Y chromosome) and females have two X chromosomes, X-linked dominant conditions affect males and females differently. Both males and females can have an X-linked dominant condition. However, because males don't have a second, working copy of the gene (as females do), they usually have more severe disease than females. If a father has the mutated X-linked gene: all of his daughters will inherit the mutated gene (they will all receive his X chromosome) none of his sons will inherit the mutated gene (they only inherit his Y chromosome) If a mother has the mutated X-linked gene, each of her children (both male and female) has a 50% chance to inherit the mutated gene. Less commonly, hypophosphatemic rickets is inherited in an X-linked recessive, autosomal dominant, or autosomal recessive manner.

Question: Is X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita inherited ?
Answer: How is X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita inherited? X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation must be present in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons. In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one mutated copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. She can pass on the altered gene, but usually does not experience signs and symptoms of the disorder. In rare cases, however, females who carry a NR0B1 mutation may experience adrenal insufficiency or signs of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism such as underdeveloped reproductive tissues, delayed puberty, and an absence of menstruation.

Question: Is Autoimmune atrophic gastritis inherited ?
Answer: Is autoimmune atrophic gastritis inherited? In some cases, more than one family member can be affected by autoimmune atrophic gastritis. Although the underlying genetic cause has not been identified, studies suggest that the condition may be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner in these families. In autosomal dominant conditions, an affected person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with the condition has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is Diabetes mellitus type 1 inherited ?
Answer: Is diabetes mellitus type 1 inherited? Diabetes mellitus type 1 (DM1) itself is not inherited, but a predisposition to developing the condition can run in families. While some people with a family history of DM1 may be at an increased risk, most will not have the condition. While the exact cause is not known, some genetic risk factors have been found. The risk of developing DM1 is increased by having certain versions (variants) of genes, which belong to a family of genes called the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex. HLA genes have many variations, and people have a certain combination of these variations, called a haplotype. Certain HLA haplotypes are associated with a higher risk of developing DM1, with particular combinations causing the highest risk. However, these variants are also found in the general population, and only about 5% of people with the gene variants develop DM1. Other genes, as well as a variety of other factors, are thought to influence the risk for DM1 also. Because there is no specific inheritance pattern associated with DM1, it is difficult to predict whether another family member will develop the condition. Generally, the risk is higher if a parent or sibling is affected. In some cases, genetic testing can be done to determine if someone who has a family history is at increased risk of developing the condition.  More information can be found on the America Diabetes Association's Web site, which has an article entitled Genetics of Diabetes. People with specific questions about genetic risks to themselves or family members should speak with their health care provider or a genetics professional.

Question: Is Primary carnitine deficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is primary carnitine deficiency inherited? Primary carnitine deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Individuals have two copies of each gene, one of which is inherited from each parent. For an individual to have an autosomal recessive condition, he/she must have a mutation in both copies of the disease-causing gene. The parents of an affected individual, who each likely have one mutated copy, are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not have any signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers for an autosomal recessive condition have children together, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% risk to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Tay-Sachs disease inherited ?
Answer: How is Tay-Sachs disease inherited? This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means two copies of the gene in each cell are altered. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive disorder are carriers of one copy of the altered gene but do not show signs and symptoms of the disorder.

Question: Is Relapsing polychondritis inherited ?
Answer: Is relapsing polychondritis inherited? Relapsing polychondritis (RP) is not passed through families in a clear-cut fashion. Most people with relapsing polychondritis do not have affected relatives. Like many other autoimmune conditions, RP is likely a multifactorial condition which is associated with the effects of multiple genes in combination with lifestyle and environmental factors. In general, having a first degree relative (for example a parent, child, or sibling) with an autoimmune condition may increase your personal risk for developing an autoimmune condition. Unfortunately, no specific risk estimates are available for relapsing polychondritis.

Question: Is Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, kyphoscoliosis type inherited ?
Answer: Is Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome, kyphoscoliotic type inherited? Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, kyphoscoliosis type is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Robinow syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Robinow syndrome inherited? Robinow syndrome may be inherited in an autosomal recessive or autosomal dominant manner. Autosomal recessive (AR) inheritance means both copies of the responsible gene in each cell must have a mutation for a person to be affected. The parents of a person with AR Robinow syndrome usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically are unaffected. When two carriers of AR Robinow syndrome have children together, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected, a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent, and a 25% chance to be unaffected and not a carrier. Autosomal dominant (AD) inheritance means that having only one mutated copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause features of the condition. Some people with AD Robinow syndrome inherit the mutated gene from an affected parent. In other cases, the mutation that causes the condition occurs for the first time in the affected person. When a person with AD Robinow syndrome has children, each child has a 50% chance to inherit the mutated gene.

Question: Is Glutaric acidemia type I inherited ?
Answer: How is glutaric acidemia type I inherited? Glutaric acidemia type I is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that both copies of the responsible gene in each cell must have mutations for a person to be affected. The parents of a person with an autosomal recessive condition typically each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically are unaffected and have no signs or symptoms. When two carrier parents have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected, a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent, and a 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Hereditary fructose intolerance inherited ?
Answer: How is hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI) inherited? HFI is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, which means alterations (mutations) are present in both copies of the ALDOB gene. The parents of an individual with HFI each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typicaly do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Uncombable hair syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is uncombable hair syndrome inherited? Uncombable hair syndrome (UHS) is thought to be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with reduced penetrance. Autosomal dominant means that having a change (mutation) in only one copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause features of the condition. When a person with a mutation that causes an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit that mutation. Reduced penetrance means that not all people with a mutation in the responsible gene will have the condition. For this reason, conditions with reduced penetrance may appear to "skip a generation" or may appear to occur for the first time (or only once) in a family. While people with UHS often report a negative family history, the characteristic hair shaft abnormality seen in affected people can still be seen in unaffected family members by looking at their hair under a specific type of microscope.

Question: Is Gilbert syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Gilbert syndrome inherited? Gilbert syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of a person with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis inherited ?
Answer: Is adolescent idiopathic scoliosis inherited? Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis can be sporadic, which means it occurs in people without a family history of the condition, or it can cluster in families. The inheritance pattern of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis is unclear because many genetic and environmental factors appear to be involved. We do know, however, that having a close relative (such as a parent or sibling) with the condition increases a child's risk of developing it.

Question: Is Thoracic outlet syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Are cervical ribs inherited? Cervical ribs are actually thought to be a common trait. It has been estimated that 1 to 2% of the population have a cervical rib. Cervical ribs can affect one or both sides of the neck, and may cause thoracic outlet syndrome by putting pressure on an artery.  Currently, the cause of cervical ribs is not known. In general, both genetic and environmental factors are thought to be involved. There have been animal studies investigating the role of HOX genes in causing extra ribs. Studies have also suggested environmental exposures, such as maternal exposure to foreign chemicals or stress during pregnancy could play a role. Further research in this area is needed. There have been rare case reports of families with multiple members with cervical rib. In these families autosomal dominant inheritance was suspected. Click here to learn more about autosomal dominant inheritance.   While we were unable to find recurrence risk data that might help inform your loved ones of their risk for cervical rib and thoracic outlet syndrome, we do suggest that your family members let their healthcare provider know of their family medical history. The Surgeon General's Family History Initiative's Family Health Portrait Tool, may be a helpful resource. You can use this tool to collect, record, and share your family health history information. http://www.hhs.gov/familyhistory/

Question: Is 22q11.2 deletion syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is 22q11.2 deletion syndrome inherited? Most cases of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome are not inherited from a parent and are caused by a random error during the formation of egg or sperm cells, or during early fetal development. In about 10% of cases, the deletion is inherited from a parent with the deletion. All people with the deletion, whether they inherited it or not, can pass the deletion to their children. The inheritance pattern is autosomal dominant because having a deletion in only one copy of chromosome 22 in each cell is enough to cause signs and symptoms. Each child of a person with the deletion has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the deletion.

Question: Is Laron syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Laron syndrome inherited? Most cases of Laron syndrome are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier. Reports exist of rare families in which Laron syndrome appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. In these cases, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. An affected person has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is Alpha-thalassemia x-linked intellectual disability syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is alpha-thalassemia x-linked intellectual disability syndrome inherited? Alpha-thalassemia x-linked intellectual disability (ATRX) syndrome is caused by a mutation in the ATRX gene and is inherited in an x-linked way.  The chance that a relative may have ATRX syndrome depends on whether the mutation in the first affected family member was inherited from his mother or happened by chance (a de novo mutation).  If the mutation happened by chance, there is very little risk that other relatives could be affected by this condition.  If the mutation was inherited from his mother, each of his mother's sisters has a 50% of being a carrier of ATRX syndrome.  If a woman is a carrier of an ATRX mutation, she has a 25% chance of having a son with the mutation who is affected with ATRX syndrome; a 25% chance of having a son who does not have the mutation and does not have ATRX syndrome; a 25% chance of having a daughter with the mutation who is a carrier of ATRX syndrome; and a 25% chance of having a daughter who does not have the mutation and is not a carrier.

Question: Is Tracheoesophageal fistula inherited ?
Answer: Is tracheoesophageal fistula inherited? In most cases, tracheoesophageal fistula (TEF) is not inherited and there is only one affected person in a family. When TEF is isolated (i.e. does not occur with any other abnormalities), it is considered a multifactorial condition (caused by a combination of various genetic and environmental factors). However, in most isolated cases, no specific genetic changes or environmental factors have been proven to cause the condition. When TEF occurs as a feature of a specific genetic syndrome or chromosome abnormality, it may follow the inheritance pattern and recurrence risk for the underlying condition. In these cases, it may be caused by changes in single genes or chromosomes, or it may be multifactorial.

Question: Is Hereditary sensory neuropathy type 1 inherited ?
Answer: How is hereditary sensory neuropathy type 1 inherited? Hereditary sensory neuropathy type 1 (HSN1) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having only one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause signs and symptoms of the condition. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the mutated gene from the affected parent. In rare cases, a mutation that causes HSN1 occurs sporadically as a new (de novo) mutation in a person without an affected parent.

Question: Is Von Willebrand disease inherited ?
Answer: Is von Willebrand disease always inherited from a parent? Most, but not all, cases of von Willebrand disease (VWD) are inherited. The majority of cases of type 1 and type 2A, as well as type 2B and type 2M, are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. VWD type 2N, type 3, and some cases of type 1 and type 2A are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Most individuals with an autosomal dominant type of VWD have an affected parent. However, some individuals are affected due to having a new (de novo) mutation in the VWF gene that occurred for the first time in the affected individual. If the mutation found in the affected individual cannot be detected in either parent, it is most often due to a de novo mutation but may also be due to germline mosaicism in a parent. Possible non-medical explanations which may be explored include alternate paternity or maternity (e.g., with assisted reproduction) or undisclosed adoption. There is also a separate, rare condition called acquired von Willebrand syndrome (AVWS). This is a mild to moderate bleeding disorder that is typically seen in conjunction with other disorders, such as diseases that affect bone marrow or immune cell function. AVWS is not caused by a mutation in the VWF gene and usually begins in adulthood.

Question: Is Madelung disease inherited ?
Answer: Is Madelung disease inherited? Although the exact cause of Madelung disease is unknown, most cases are not thought to be inherited. However, more than one family member can occasionally be affected by this condition which suggests that it may be inherited in rare cases. In the majority of these families, the mode of inheritance has not been determined. However, changes (mutations) in mitochondrial DNA have been identified in some families who have Madelung disease in combination with other conditions that affect many different systems of the body.

Question: Is Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy inherited ?
Answer: Is chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) inherited? CIDP is not known to be inherited and is considered an acquired disorder. No clear genetic predisposition or other predisposing factors for CIDP have been identified.

Question: Is Pyruvate kinase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is pyruvate kinase deficiency inherited? Pyruvate kinase deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion, which means that a child must inherit a gene with a disease-causing mutation from both parents to develop the disorder. The gene that causes pyruvate kinase deficiency is called the PKLR gene that is located on chromosome 1q21.  Although the inheritance is clinically autosomal recessive, most affected individuals are compound heterozygous for two different mutant alleles. It is estimated that approximatly 1 in 100 people carry one copy of a disease-causing mutation in the PKLR gene.  Carriers of one non-working PKLR gene usually have moderatly reduced levels of pyruvate kinase activity but do not develop clinical symptoms. It is possible that carriers of a mutant pyruvate kinase genemay have a protective advantage against malaria in areas where the disease is endemic.

Question: Is Pseudoachondroplasia inherited ?
Answer: How is pseudoachondroplasia inherited? Pseudoachondroplasia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means having one altered copy of the COMP gene in each cell is enough to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Polycythemia vera inherited ?
Answer: Is polycythemia vera inherited? Most cases of polycythemia vera (PCV) are not inherited from a parent and are acquired during a person's lifetime. The condition is associated with genetic changes (mutations) that are somatic, which means they occur in cells of the body but not in egg and sperm cells. In rare cases, the risk to develop PCV runs in families and sometimes appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. This means that only one altered copy of a gene in each cell is enough to give a person an increased risk for PCV. In other words, while an increased risk to develop PCV may be inherited, the condition itself is not inherited.

Question: Is Huntington disease inherited ?
Answer: How is Huntington disease inherited? Huntington disease (HD) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having a change (mutation) in only one of the 2 copies of the HTT gene is enough to cause the condition. When a person with HD has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the mutated gene and develop the condition. Most people with HD have an affected parent. The family history can sometimes appear negative for various reasons even though a parent carries, or carried, a mutation in the HTT gene. In rare cases, HD is caused by a new (de novo) mutation in the HTT gene, in which case the disease occurs for the first time in the affected person and is not inherited from a parent. As HD is passed through generations, the size of the mutation in the HTT gene (called a trinucleotide repeat) often increases. A longer repeat in the HTT gene may cause earlier onset of symptoms. This phenomenon is called anticipation.

Question: Is Barrett esophagus inherited ?
Answer: Is Barrett esophagus inherited? Barrett esophagus usually occurs sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. In rare cases, it can affect more than one family member; however, it is unclear whether these cases are due to common environmental exposures or an inherited predisposition (or a combination of the two). One study found that some people with Barrett esophagus who go on to develop esophageal adenocarcinoma have changes (mutations) in the MSR1, ASCC1, and/or CTHRC1 genes. However, additional studies are needed to confirm these findings.

Question: Is Hemifacial microsomia inherited ?
Answer: Is hemifacial microsomia inherited? Hemifacial microsomia most often occurs in a single individual in a family and is not inherited. If the condition is caused by a chromosomal abnormality, it may be inherited from one affected parent or it may result from a new abnormality in the chromosome and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In a very small number of cases, hemifacial microsomia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In rare cases, the condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. The gene or genes involved in hemifacial microsomia are unknown. In some affected families, people seem to inherit an increased risk of developing hemifacial microsomia, not the condition itself. In these cases, some combination of genetic changes and environmental factors may be involved.

Question: Is Mitochondrial complex II deficiency inherited ?
Answer: What causes mitochondrial complex II deficiency? Many genes must work together to ensure that the enzyme, complex II (succinate dehydrogenase), can perform its job normally in the body. Changes in the SDHA, SDHB, SDHC, SDHD, SDHAF1, and SDHAF2 genes can all potentially cause complex II deficiency. Complex II deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion. This means that a person must inherit a gene mutation from both their mother and father in order to develop complex II deficiency. People who have a single mutation are called carriers. Carriers of complex II deficiency may be at an increased risk for certain health problems, including for paragangliomas and/or pheochromocytomas.[8676]

Question: Is Cold agglutinin disease inherited ?
Answer: Is cold agglutinin disease inherited? Cold agglutinin disease is not an inherited condition. It is designated as either primary (unknown cause) or secondary (associated with or caused by another condition). In some cases, cold agglutinin may be multifactorial which means that multiple environmental factors and genes likely interact to predispose a person to developing the condition. However, to our knowledge, no disease-causing genes have been identified and no familial cases have been reported.

Question: Is Hallermann-Streiff syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Hallermann-Streiff syndrome inherited? The majority of cases of Hallermann-Streiff syndrome appear to be sporadic (occurring in individuals with no history of the condition in the family). There have been reports of affected individuals having multiple, unaffected children. Although some have reported it appears to be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner in a small number of cases, others have argued that there is little evidence for this being a recessively inherited disorder. Therefore, the mode of inheritance of the condition remains unclear.

Question: Is Nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia due to hexokinase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia due to hexokinase deficiency inherited? Nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia due to hexokinase deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that a mutation in both copies of the gene associated with the condition must be present in order to be affected. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each have one mutated copy of the gene in each cell and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not have any signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of the same autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to be affected, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be an unaffected carrier like each parent, and a 25% risk to be unaffected and have 2 normal copies of the gene.

Question: Is Prothrombin thrombophilia inherited ?
Answer: How is prothrombin thrombophilia inherited? Prothrombin thrombophilia is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. For this condition, this means that having one mutated copy of the disease-causing gene (F2) in each cell may be sufficient to cause signs or symptoms of the condition. The mutation in the F2 gene that causes prothrombin thrombophilia is called 20210G>A (also called the 20210G>A allele). An individual can be heterozygous (having the mutation in only one copy of the F2 gene) or homozygous (having a mutation in both copies of the F2 gene). Heterozygosity results in an increased risk for thrombosis; homozygosity results in more severe thrombophilia and/or increased risk for thrombosis. All individuals reported to date with prothrombin thrombophilia who are heterozygous for the 20210G>A allele have had an affected parent. Because of the relatively high prevalence of this allele in the general population, occasionally one parent is homozygous or both parents are heterozygous for this allele. When an individual who is heterozygous for the 20210G>A allele has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit that allele and also be heterozygous. An individual who is homozygous will always pass one of the 20210G>A alleles to each of his/her children. If two heterozygotes have children together, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to be homozygous (having 2 mutated copies), a 50% risk to be heterozygous like each parent, and a 25% risk to inherit 2 normal copies of the F2 gene.

Question: Is Cherubism inherited ?
Answer: If I find that I am not a carrier for cherubism can I still have children with the disease? Yes. Again, only 80 percent of people with cherubism have an identifiable mutation in the SH3BP2 gene. In the remaining cases, the cause is genetic, but unknown. Individuals who do not have an identifiable genetic cause can still have children with cherubism.

Question: Is Hydrocephalus due to congenital stenosis of aqueduct of sylvius inherited ?
Answer: Is hydrocephalus due to congenital stenosis of aqueduct of sylvius inherited? Hydrocephalus due to congenital stenosis of aqueduct of sylvius is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. A condition is X-linked if the responsible gene is located on the X chromosome. The X chromosome is one of the two sex chromosomes (the other sex chromosome is the Y chromosome). Females have two X chromosomes in each cell and males have an X chromosome and a Y chromosome in each cell. Although females have two X chromosomes, one of the X chromosomes in each cell is "turned off" and all of the genes on that chromosome are inactivated. Females who have a change (mutation) in a gene on one of their X chromosomes are called carriers of the related condition. Carrier females usually do not have symptoms of the condition because the X chromosome with the mutated gene is often turned off and they have another X chromosome with a working copy of the gene. Sometimes, the X chromosome with the working copy of the gene is turned off, which may cause symptoms of the condition. However, females with symptoms are usually much more mildly affected than males. A male has only one X chromosome, so if he inherits a mutation on the X chromosome, he will have signs and symptoms (be affected). Males with an X-linked recessive condition always pass the mutated gene to all of their daughters, who will be carriers. A male cannot pass an X-linked gene to his sons because males always pass their Y chromosome to male offspring. Female carriers of an X-linked recessive condition have a 25% chance with each pregnancy to have a carrier daughter like themselves, a 25% chance to have a non-carrier daughter, a 25% chance to have an affected son, and a 25% chance to have an unaffected son. This also means that each daughter of a carrier mother has a 50% chance of being a carrier, and each son has a 50% chance of having the condition.

Question: Is Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease inherited ?
Answer: How is Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease inherited? Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease (GSS) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with GSS has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is Hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis inherited ?
Answer: Since I have a family history of hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis, what are the chances that I inherited the condition? To find out your chances of having hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis, you may want to speak with a genetics professional. A genetics professionl can review your medical and family history in order to provide you with your specific risks. To learn more about genetic consultations, click here.

Question: Is Fragile X syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is fragile X syndrome inherited? Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. A condition is X-linked if the responsible gene is located on the X chromosome. The inheritance is dominant if having only one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene is enough to cause symptoms of the condition. In women who carry an FMR1 gene premutation (approximately 55 to 200 CGG repeats), the repeats can expand to more than 200 repeats in their cells that develop into eggs. This means that women with a premutation (or a full mutation) have an increased risk to have a child with FXS. The size of the risk corresponds to the number of CGG repeats they have. By contrast, men with premutations are not at risk for the repeats expanding to over 200 when passing the gene to offspring. However, men with a premutation will pass the premutation on to all of their daughters and none of their sons. This is because boys receive only a Y chromosome from their fathers.

Question: Is Syndactyly type 3 inherited ?
Answer: How is syndactyly type 3 inherited? Syndactyly type 3 has been shown to be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having only one mutated copy of the causative gene is sufficient to cause the condition. When an individual with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance of inheriting the mutated gene and a 50% chance of inheriting the normal gene and being unaffected.

Question: Is Opitz G/BBB syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Opitz G/BBB syndrome inherited? Opitz G/BBB syndrome often has an X-linked  pattern of inheritance. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes (the other sex chromosome is the Y chromosome). In most cases, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females. This is because females have two different X chromosomes in each cell, and males have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons, because fathers only pass a Y chromosome on to their sons (which is what makes them male). In some cases, an affected person inherits a MID1 mutation from an affected parent, while in other cases, it may result from a new mutation in the affected individual. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A female who has the X-linked form of Opitz G/BBB syndrome has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to have a daughter with the mutation, a 25% chance to have a son with the mutation, a 25% chance to have an unaffected daughter, and a 25% chance to have an unaffected son. This also means that there is a 50% chance, with each pregnancy, for the child to inherit the mutation. A male with the X-linked dominant form of Opitz G/BBB syndrome will pass the mutation on to all of his daughters and none of his sons. Researchers have also described an autosomal dominant form of Opitz G/BBB syndrome caused by a deletion in one copy of chromosome 22 in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the chromosome with a deleted segment from a parent, while in other cases, the condition results from a new deletion in the affected individual. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Males and females with the autosomal dominant form of Opitz G/BBB syndrome usually have the same degree of severity of symptoms. A male or female who has the autosomal dominant form of Opitz G/BBB syndrome has a 50% (1 in 2) chance with each pregnancy for the child (male or female) to inherit the genetic abnormality.

Question: Is Frontal fibrosing alopecia inherited ?
Answer: Is frontal fibrosing alopecia inherited? Frontal fibrosing alopecia is not thought to be inherited in most cases. It rarely affects more than one person in a family.

Question: Is Familial hypercholesterolemia inherited ?
Answer: How is familial hypercholesterolemia inherited? Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant manner (in which case it is referred to as heterozygous FH). Individuals inherit two copies of each gene (one from each parent). In an autosomal dominant condition, having only one abnormal (mutated) copy of the gene is sufficient to cause the condition. In most cases the mutated gene is inherited from an affected parent, but it is possible for the mutation to occur for the first time in the affected individual. An individual with an autosomal dominant condition has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to pass the mutation on to each of his/her children and a 50% chance to not pass on the mutation. More rarely, familial FH may be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This occurs when an individual inherits a mutated copy of the gene from both parents (this is also called homozygous FH). This is a much more severe form of FH. An individual with this form of FH will always pass on a mutated copy of the gene, and therefore each of his/her children will have heterozygous FH.

Question: Is Tracheobronchopathia osteoplastica inherited ?
Answer: Is tracheobronchopathia osteoplastica inherited? There is no known genetic susceptibility to the development of TO, and it typically occurs in people with no known history of the condition in their family. Familial occurrence has been reported only once, in a woman and her daughter.

Question: Is Ewing sarcoma inherited ?
Answer: Is Ewing sarcoma an inherited condition? This condition is generally not inherited but arises from a mutation in the body's cells that occurs after conception (somatic mutation). Most cases are considered to be sporadic. However, the incidence of neuroectodermal and stomach malignancies is increased among family members of patients with tumors of the Ewing sarcoma family.  A search of the medical literature did identify a very small number of cases of Ewing sarcoma among siblings. To access articles on this topic, click here.

Question: Is Galactosialidosis inherited ?
Answer: How is galactosialidosis inherited? Galactosialidosis is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Protein C deficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is protein C deficiency inherited? Hereditary protein C deficiency is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having only one mutated copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause mild protein C deficiency. A mutated copy of the gene can be inherited from a person's mother or father. People who inherit two mutated copies of the gene have severe protein C deficiency.

Question: Is Chondrocalcinosis 2 inherited ?
Answer: Is chondrocalcinosis 2 inherited? Chondrocalcinosis 2 is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with chondrocalcinosis 2 has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is Congenital myasthenic syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is congenital myasthenic syndrome inherited? Almost all types of CMS are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. In order to have the autosomal recessive form of CMS, both parents of an affected individual must be carriers of the disease causing mutation. If a person has CMS, but their partner is not a carrier of a CMS mutation, then their children will be carriers but will not have CMS. If one person has CMS and one person is a carrier of CMS, each child has a 50% chance of either being a carrier of CMS or having the disorder. Only one form of CMS (slow-channel syndrome congenital myasthenic syndrome) has been shown to be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that if one parent has slow-channel syndrome congenital myasthenic syndrome then all of their children have a 50% chance of inheriting the disorder as well. It is important to discuss this information with your health care provider, such as a genetic counselor, to accurately determine a person's risk for passing on this disorder.

Question: Is Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis inherited ?
Answer: Is hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis inherited? Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) may be inherited or acquired (due to non-genetic factors). Familial HLH is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a change (mutation) in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier. Acquired HLH is not inherited. The non-genetic causes of HLH include: infection, medications that suppress the immune system, autoimmune diseases, immunodeficiencies, certain types of cancer and/or metabolic diseases.

Question: Is Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: How is Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy inherited? The inheritance of Fuchs dystrophy is not straight forward. In some cases, Fuchs dystrophy appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. When this condition is caused by a mutation in the COL8A2 gene (which is the early-onset form of the disease), it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. In addition, an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern is seen in some situations in which the condition is caused by changes in an unknown gene. However, in many cases, the inheritance pattern is unknown. Some cases result from new mutations in a gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Due to the complex nature of the inheritance of this condition, we strongly recommend you discuss your concerns with a genetics professional.

Question: Is Kawasaki syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Kawasaki syndrome inherited? A predisposition to Kawasaki syndrome appears to be passed through generations in families, but the inheritance pattern is unknown.

Question: Is GM1 gangliosidosis inherited ?
Answer: How is GM1 gangliosidosis inherited? GM1 gangliosidosis is a hereditary condition that is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. Affected people inherit one mutated copy of the gene from each parent, who is referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have any signs or symptoms (they are unaffected). When 2 carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has: a 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent a 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier GM1 gangliosidosis is type-specific within families. This means that people with a family history of the condition are generally only at increased risk for the specific type of GM1 gangliosidosis in the family.

Question: Is Denys-Drash syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Denys-Drash syndrome inherited? Denys-Drash syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases of Denys-Drash syndrome result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene that occur during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type 1 inherited ?
Answer: How is microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type 1 (MOPD1) inherited? MOPD1 is thought to be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that affected individuals have abnormal gene changes (mutations) in both copies of the disease-causing gene, with one copy inherited from each parent. The parents who each carry one abnormal copy of the gene are referred to as carriers; carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of an autosomal recessive condition. When two carriers have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Cutaneous mastocytosis inherited ?
Answer: Is cutaneous mastocytosis inherited? Most cases of cutaneous mastocytosis are not inherited. They occur spontaneously in families with no history of the condition and are due to somatic changes (mutations) in the KIT gene. Somatic mutations occur after conception and are only present in certain cells. Because they are not present in the germ cells (egg and sperm), they are not passed on to the next generation. Cutaneous mastocytosis can rarely affect more than one family member. In these cases, the condition is typically inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. A person with familial cutaneous mastocytosis has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is Triple A syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is triple A syndrome inherited? Triple A syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern,which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene and are referred to as "carriers" but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. When 2 carriers for the same autosomal recessive condition have a child, there is a 25% (1 in 4) chance that the child will have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) chance that the child will be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance that the child will not have the condition and not be a carrier for the condition.

Question: Is Dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy inherited ?
Answer: How is dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA) inherited?

Question: Is Alopecia universalis inherited ?
Answer: Is alopecia universalis inherited? Alopecia universalis is believed to be a multifactorial condition, which means it is caused by a combination of environmental influences and genetic predisposition. While a predisposition can be inherited and some affected people have a family history, the condition itself is not thought to be inherited.

Question: Is Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome inherited? Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome (NBCCS) is caused by a change (mutation) in the PTCH1 gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant way.  This means that if a close relative (such as a parent or sibling) has NBCCS, there is a 50% chance that an individual may also have inherited this condition, and a 50% chance that they did not.  Because the symptoms of NBCCS can vary widely and are sometimes mild or subtle, it is not always possible to tell which relatives have inherited the condition based on physical features alone.  As such, individuals who have a close relative with NBCCS may consider genetic testing to determine whether they inherited NBCCS.

Question: Is Cornelia de Lange syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Cornelia de Lange syndrome inherited? Cornelia de Lange syndrome (CdLS) can be inherited in an autosomal dominant (NIPBL, SMC2, or RAD21) or X-linked (SMC1A or HDAC8) manner depending on the underlying genetic cause. However, most cases (more than 99%) result from new (de novo) mutations and occur in people with no family history of the condition.

Question: Is Non-classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: Is non-classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency inherited? Non-classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency (NCAH) is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Cowden syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Cowden syndrome inherited? Cowden syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with Cowden syndrome has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is Hereditary lymphedema type II inherited ?
Answer: How is hereditary lymphedema type II inherited? Hereditary lymphedema type II appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means that one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. People with hereditary lymphedema type II usually have at least one other affected family member, in most cases, a parent. When the condition occurs in only one person in a family, the condition is described as Meige-like lymphedema.

Question: Is Usher syndrome, type 2C inherited ?
Answer: How is Usher syndrome inherited? Usher syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that a person must have a change (mutation) in both copies of the disease-causing gene in each cell to have Usher syndrome. One mutated copy is typically inherited from each parent, who are each referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition usually do not have any signs or symptoms. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent, and a 25% chance to not be a carrier and not be affected.

Question: Is Usher syndrome, type 1C inherited ?
Answer: How is Usher syndrome inherited? Usher syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that a person must have a change (mutation) in both copies of the disease-causing gene in each cell to have Usher syndrome. One mutated copy is typically inherited from each parent, who are each referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition usually do not have any signs or symptoms. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent, and a 25% chance to not be a carrier and not be affected.

Question: Is Acute intermittent porphyria inherited ?
Answer: How is acute intermittent porphyria (AIP) inherited? AIP is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion, which means only one of the two HMBS genes needs to have a disease-causing mutation to decrease enzyme activity and cause symptoms.

Question: Is SHORT syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is SHORT syndrome inherited? SHORT syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant  pattern. For conditions with autosomal dominant inheritance, one abnormal copy of the causative gene in each cell is sufficient to cause signs and symptoms of the condition. The abnormal copy of the gene may be inherited from an affected parent, or it may occur for the first time in an affected individual. When an individual with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be affected.

Question: Is Marden-Walker syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Marden-Walker syndrome inherited? Marden-Walker syndrome is thought to be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner since cases of affected siblings and parental consanguinity (the parents of the child with the condition are related to each other) have been reported.

Question: Is Book syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Book syndrome inherited? To our knowledge, Book syndrome has only been reported in one, large Swedish family (25 cases in 4 generations) and in one other isolated case. In the Swedish family, the syndrome was inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. In autosomal dominant inheritance, having a mutation in only one copy of the responsible gene is enough to cause signs and symptoms of the condition. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the mutated copy of the gene.

Question: Is Schizencephaly inherited ?
Answer: Is schizencephaly inherited? Schizencephaly is not thought to be inherited in most cases and it rarely affects more than one person in a family. A few cases of familial schizencephaly have been linked to changes (mutations) in the EMX2 gene.

Question: Is Bethlem myopathy inherited ?
Answer: How is Bethlem myopathy inherited? Bethlem myopathy is typically inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. IN some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. In rare cases, the condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Mondini dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: Is Mondini dysplasia inherited? Mondini dysplasia usually occurs sporadically as an isolated abnormality (occurring in only one individual in a family with no other abnormalities) but it can be associated with a variety of syndromes including Klippel Feil syndrome, Pendred syndrome, DiGeorge syndrome, Wildervanck syndrome, Fountain syndrome, Johanson-Blizzard syndrome, and some chromosomal trisomies. These syndromes can be inherited in a variety of ways, but Mondini dysplasia may not occur in each affected individual. It has also has been reported in families with congenital sensorineural hearing loss, both with autosomal dominant and presumed autosomal recessive inheritance. One study described familial nonsyndromic Mondini dysplasia in a mother, son and daughter with presumed autosomal dominant inheritance; another study described familial nonsyndromic Mondini dysplasia in a family in which transmission was most consistent with autosomal recessive inheritance. It has also been suggested that Mondini dysplasia may be associated with substances that may harm a developing fetus when a pregnant woman is exposed (teratogens) such as thalidomide or rubella. Being that Mondini dysplasia has been associated with a variety of conditions, inheritance patterns, and both genetic and non-genetic causes, it appears to be inherited in some cases, with the inheritance pattern being dependent upon the underlying cause of the condition in each individual or family.

Question: Is Serpiginous choroiditis inherited ?
Answer: Can I inherit serpiginous choroiditis if my mother has the condition? No familial predillection or propensity has been described.

Question: Is Nance-Horan syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Nance-Horan syndrome inherited? Nance-Horan syndrome is inherited as an X-linked dominant trait. In X-linked dominant inheritance, both males and females can be affected by a condition. However, affected males tend to have more severe features than females. X-linked conditions result from mutations of a gene located on an X chromosome. Females have two X chromosomes, but males have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome. In females, disease traits resulting from the abnormal copy of a gene on one X chromosome can be 'masked' by the normal copy of the gene on the other X chromosome. Because only one functioning X chromosome is required in males and females, one of the X chromosomes in each cell of a female is essentially 'turned off,' usually in a random pattern (X chromosome inactivation). Therefore, if the X chromosome with the gene mutation is activated in some cells, female carriers may have some mild features of the disorder. However, since males only have one X chromosome, they will likely fully express a condition if they inherit a gene mutation that is located on the X chromosome.

Question: Is Epidermolysis bullosa acquisita inherited ?
Answer: Is epidermolysis bullosa acquisita inherited? Unlike the genetic forms of epidermolysis bullosa, epidermolysis bullosa acquisita (EBA) is considered an acquired, sporadic disease. This means that it generally occurs in people with no history of the condition in their families. There have been a couple of reports of families with more than one affected person, suggesting a genetic component may be involved. This could mean that EBA may develop in a person who is "genetically susceptible." However, the condition is not thought to be due to any specific gene(s).

Question: Is Muir-Torre syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Muir-Torre syndrome inherited? Muir-Torre-syndrome (MTS) is a variant of Lynch syndrome and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having only one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough for a person to develop the condition. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the mutated copy of the responsible gene. It is important to note that people who inherit a mutated gene that causes MTS inherit an increased risk of cancer, not the disease itself. Not all people who inherit a mutation in an associated gene will develop cancer. This phenomenon is called reduced penetrance. The majority of people diagnosed with a form of Lynch syndrome have inherited the mutated gene from a parent. However, because not all people with a mutation develop cancer, and the variable age at which cancer may develop, not all people with a mutation have a parent who had cancer. Thus, the family history may appear negative. A positive family history of MTS is identified in roughly 50% of affected people. The percentage of people with Lynch syndrome who have a new mutation in the gene that occurred for the first time (and was not inherited from a parent) is unknown but is estimated to be extremely low.

Question: Is Moebius syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Moebius syndrome inherited? Most cases of Moebius syndrome are not inherited and occur as isolated cases in individuals with no history of the condition in their family (sporadically). A small percentage of cases of Moebius syndrome have been familial (occurring in more than one individual in a family), but there has not been a consistent pattern of inheritance among all affected families. In some families the pattern has been suggestive of autosomal dominant inheritance, while in other families it has been suggestive of autosomal recessive or X-linked recessive inheritance.

Question: Is Juvenile retinoschisis inherited ?
Answer: How is juvenile retinoschisis inherited? Juvenile retinoschisis is inherited in an x-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation must be present in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A striking characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons. In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one mutated copy of the gene (mutation) in each cell is called a carrier. She can pass on the mutation, but usually does not experience signs and symptoms of the condition. Carrier women have a 50% chance of passing the mutation to their children, males who inherit the mutation will be affected; females who inherit the mutation will be carriers and will nearly always have normal vision. Carrier testing for at-risk female relatives and prenatal testing for pregnancies at increased risk are possible if the disease-causing mutation in the family is known.

Question: Is Hashimoto's encephalitis inherited ?
Answer: Is Hashimoto's encephalitis inherited? We are aware of only one instance when more than one person in the same family had Hashimoto's encephalitis (HE). To our knowledge, no other cases of familial HE have been reported; HE typically occurs in people with no family history of the condition (sporadically). HE can occur in association with other autoimmune disorders, so HE may develop due to an interaction between genes that predispose a person (susceptibility genes) and environmental triggers.

Question: Is Maternally inherited diabetes and deafness inherited ?
Answer: How do people inherit MIDD? MIDD is inherited in a mitochondrial pattern, which is also known as maternal inheritance. This pattern of inheritance applies to genes contained in mitochondrial DNA. Because egg cells, but not sperm cells, contribute mitochondria to the developing embryo, only females pass mitochondrial conditions to their children. Mitochondrial disorders can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females, but fathers do not pass mitochondrial traits to their children. Most of the body's cells contain thousands of mitochondria, each with one or more copies of mitochondrial DNA. These cells can have a mix of mitochondria containing mutated and unmutated DNA (heteroplasmy). The severity of MIDD is thought to be associated with the percentage of mitochondria with the mitochondrial DNA mutation.

Question: Is Dopa-responsive dystonia inherited ?
Answer: How is dopa-responsive dystonia inherited? Depending on the genetic cause of dopa-responsive dystonia (DRD), it may be inherited in an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive manner. When DRD is caused by mutations in the GCH1 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having a mutation in only one of the 2 copies of the gene is enough to cause signs and symptoms of the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent; other cases result from having a new (de novo) mutation in the gene. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the mutated gene. Some people who inherit a mutated GCH1 gene never develop features of DRD; this phenomenon is known as reduced penetrance. When DRD is caused by mutations in the TH gene, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that a person must have mutations in both of their copies of the gene to be affected. The parents of a person with an autosomal recessive condition usually each carry one copy of the mutated gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not have signs or symptoms. When parents who are both carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected, a 50% chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent, and a 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier. When DRD is caused by mutations in the SPR gene, it can be inherited in an autosomal recessive or autosomal dominant manner.

Question: Is Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy inherited ?
Answer: How is familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy inherited? Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having only one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause features of the condition. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the mutated copy of the gene. In rare cases, a person with familial HCM has a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene, which leads to more severe signs and symptoms.

Question: Is Milroy disease inherited ?
Answer: How is Milroy disease inherited? Milroy disease is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause symptoms of the condition. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the mutated copy of the gene. Most people with Milroy disease have an affected parent, but some cases are due to new mutations that occur for the first time in the affected person. About 10-15% of people with a mutation in the responsible gene do not develop features of the condition. This phenomenon is called reduced penetrance.

Question: Is Orofaciodigital syndrome 2 inherited ?
Answer: How is orofaciodigital syndrome type 2 inherited? Orofaciodigital syndrome type 2 is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means that an individual needs to inherit two mutated (changed) copies of the gene-one from each parent-in order to have the condition.

Question: Is CADASIL inherited ?
Answer: How is CADASIL inherited? CADASIL is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having a mutation in only one copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause CADASIL. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutated gene from an affected parent. In rare cases, CADASIL may result from having a new mutation in the gene, in which case it is not inherited from a parent. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the mutated copy of the gene.

Question: Is EEC syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is EEC syndrome inherited? EEC syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.This means that having a change (mutation) in only one copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause features of the condition. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutated gene from an affected parent. In other cases, the mutation occurs for the first time in a person with no family history of the condition. This is called a de novo mutation. When a person with a mutation that causes an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit that mutation. EEC can appear to be caused by a de novo mutation in some instances when an unaffected parent of an affected child has germline mosaicism. Germline mosaicism affects the genetic make-up of the egg and sperm cell only. It is estimated that unaffected parents of a child with EEC syndrome have a 4% risk of having another affected child. EEC syndrome additionally shows reduced penetrance and variable expressivity. Reduced penetrance means that not all individuals with a mutation in the disease-causing gene will have signs and symptoms of the condition; however, in this condition, it has been reported that up to 93-98% of individuals with a mutation will have the condition. Variable expressivity means that there is a range of signs and symptoms that can occur in different people with the condition (i.e. the expression of the condition varies).

Question: Is Branchiooculofacial syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is branchiooculofacial syndrome (BOFS) inherited? Although some cases can be sporadic, most of the reported cases are inherited within families. BOFS is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means that one copy of the altered TFAP2A gene in each cell is sufficient to cause this condition.

Question: Is Neonatal progeroid syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is neonatal progeroid syndrome inherited? Although the underlying genetic cause of neonatal progeroid syndrome is unknown, studies suggest that it is likely inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Thanatophoric dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: Is thanatophoric dysplasia inherited? Thanatophoric dysplasia is considered an autosomal dominant disorder because one mutated copy of the FGFR3 gene in each cell causes the condition. However, almost all cases of thanatophoric dysplasia are caused by new mutations in the FGFR3 gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. No affected individuals are known to have had children, so the disorder has not been passed to the next generation.

Question: Is Henoch-Schonlein purpura inherited ?
Answer: Can Henoch-Schonlein purpura be inherited? The cause of Henoch-Schonlein purpura is currently unknown.  Some evidence suggests that genetic predisposition may contribute to the development of this disease in some cases.  Only a few families with multiple relatives affected by HSP have been reported in the medical literature.  The association between particular genes and a slight increase in the chance of developing HSP has not been proven.

Question: Is 21-hydroxylase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is 21-hydroxylase-deficient congenital adrenal hyperplasia passed through families? 21-hydroxylase-deficient congenital adrenal hyperplasia has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. In autosomal recessive conditions, both parents carry one copy of a mutated gene for the disorder. They have a 25 percent chance with each pregnancy of having a child affected by the disorder. The chance with each pregnancy of having an unaffected child who is a carrier of the disorder is 50 percent, and the chance that a child will not have the disorder and will not be a carrier is 25 percent. See the illustration below.

Question: Is Pendred syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Pendred syndrome inherited? Pendred syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. For most autosomal recessive conditions, a person must have 2 changed (mutated) copies of the responsible gene in each cell in order to have the condition. One changed copy of the responsible gene is usually inherited from each parent; the parents are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not have signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected, a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be a carrier like each parent, and a 25% chance to not be a carrier and not have the condition. Pendred syndrome can be caused either by having mutations in both copies of the SLC26A4 gene (more commonly), or by having one mutation in the SLC26A4 gene and one mutation in another gene.

Question: Is Nephrocalcinosis inherited ?
Answer: Is nephrocalcinosis inherited? Nephrocalcinosis may be caused by a large variety of things, including underlying disorders, certain medications and supplements, and infections. Nephrocalcinosis itself is not inherited. However, the underlying condition that is causing nephrocalcinosis in an individual may be inherited. Some inherited conditions that may be associated with nephrocalcinosis in affected individuals are: Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) Familial distal renal tubular acidosis Chronic granulomatous disease Primary hyperoxaluria Bartter syndrome primary hyperaldosteronism Liddle syndrome 11-beta hydroxylase deficiency, a form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) Autosomal dominant hypophosphatemic rickets and X-linked hypophosphatemic conditions

Question: Is Klinefelter syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Klinefelter syndrome inherited? Klinefelter syndrome is not inherited, but usually occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm). An error in cell division called nondisjunction can result in reproductive cells with an abnormal number of chromosomes. For example, an egg or sperm cell may gain one or more extra copies of the X chromosome as a result of nondisjunction. If one of these reproductive cells contributes to the genetic makeup of a child, the child will have one or several extra X chromosomes in each of the body's cells.

Question: Is Asperger syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Asperger syndrome inherited? Autism spectrum disorders including Asperger syndrome sometimes "run in families," but no specific inheritance pattern has been recognized. The condition is likely caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors, which means that not all people with a genetic predisposition will be affected. A consultation with a genetics professional is recommended for those with specific questions about genetic risks to themselves or family members.

Question: Is Stargardt disease inherited ?
Answer: How is Stargardt disease inherited? Stargardt disease is most commonly inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. Affected people inherit one mutated copy of the gene from each parent, who is referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have any signs or symptoms (they are unaffected). When 2 carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a: 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier A person with autosomal recessive Stargardt disease will always pass one mutated copy of the gene to each of his/her children. In other words, each of his/her children will at least be a carrier.  A child of an affected person can be affected if the other parent is also affected or is a carrier. In rare cases, Stargardt disease may be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having a mutation in only one copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause features of the condition. An affected person typically inherits the mutated gene from an affected parent. When a person with a mutation that causes an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit that mutation.

Question: Is Noonan syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Noonan syndrome inherited? Noonan syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having one changed (mutated) copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause the condition. Each child of a person with Noonan syndrome has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the condition. In some cases, the condition is inherited from an affected parent. Because the features of the condition can vary and may be very subtle, many affected adults are diagnosed only after the birth of a more obviously affected infant. In other cases, the condition is caused by a new mutation occurring for the first time in the affected person.

Question: Is Spastic diplegia cerebral palsy inherited ?
Answer: Is spastic diplegia cerebral palsy inherited? Scientists have found that family members of people with cerebral palsy, including spastic diplegia cerebral palsy, have an increased risk of developing the condition. The exact risk depends on the how closely the family members are related: A child with a sibling (brother, sister) or parent with cerebral palsy would have a six- to nine-fold increased risk of developing the condition (actual risk: 1 to 1.5%) A child with a half sibling with cerebral palsy would have up to a three-fold risk of developing the condition (actual risk: less than 1%) A child with a first cousin with cerebral palsy would have a 1.5-fold increased risk of developing the condition (actual risk: less than 1%) This suggests that there may be a genetic component in some cases of cerebral palsy. However, the inheritance is likely multifactorial which means the condition is caused by multiple genes interacting with each other and with environmental factors.

Question: Is Troyer syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Troyer syndrome inherited? Troyer syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. Affected people inherit one mutated copy of the gene from each parent, who is referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have any signs or symptoms (they are unaffected). When 2 carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has: a 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent a 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Cryptogenic organizing pneumonia inherited ?
Answer: Is cryptogenic organizing pneumonia inherited? We are not aware of any familial cases of cryptogenic organizing pneumonia (COP) in the medical literature, and to our knowledge, there is no evidence that some people may be genetically predisposed to developing COP.

Question: Is Myhre syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Myhre syndrome inherited? This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene that occur during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is McCune Albright syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is McCune Albright syndrome inherited? McCune Albright syndrome (MAS) is not inherited. It is caused by a random change (mutation) in the GNAS gene that occurs very early in development. As a result, some of the body's cells have a normal version of the GNAS gene, while other cells have the mutated version. This phenomenon is called mosaicism. The severity of this disorder and its specific features depend on the number and location of cells that have the mutated GNAS gene. This mutation is not passed on to any of the affected individual's children.

Question: Is Larsen syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Larson syndrome inherited? Larson syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. A condition is autosomal dominant when having one copy of the changed (mutated) gene in each cell is enough to cause signs or symptoms of the condition. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent; in other cases, a new mutation occurs for the first time in the affected person. While some authors have suggested autosomal recessive inheritance in families with affected siblings and unaffected parents, it was found that some of these children were affected due to germline mosaicism. This means that multiple siblings in a family inherited a disease-causing mutation from an unaffected parent who had the mutation in some or all of their egg or sperm cells only (not other body cells). This can cause a condition to appear autosomal recessive. Also, some other conditions with autosomal recessive inheritance and symptoms that overlap with Larsen syndrome have been diagnosed as Larsen syndrome, but are now mostly considered different conditions. These conditions are usually more severe and due to mutations in different genes.

Question: Is Jejunal atresia inherited ?
Answer: Is jejunal atresia inherited? Most cases of jejunal atresia occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. However, it can rarely affect more than one family member. In these families, jejunal atresia is likely due to a genetic cause and appears to be inherited in an autosomal recessive or multifactorial manner.

Question: Is Parkinson disease inherited ?
Answer: Is Parkinson disease inherited? Most cases of Parkinson disease are classified as sporadic and occur in people with no apparent history of the disorder in their family. Although the cause of these cases remains unclear, sporadic cases probably result from a complex interaction of environmental and genetic factors. Additionally, certain drugs may cause Parkinson-like symptoms. Approximately 15 percent of people with Parkinson disease have a family history of the disorder. These familial cases are caused by mutations in the LRRK2, PARK2, PARK7, PINK1, or SNCA gene, or by alterations in genes that have not yet been identified. Mutations in some of these genes may also play a role in cases that appear to be sporadic. It is not fully understood how mutations in the LRRK2, PARK2, PARK7, PINK1, or SNCA gene cause Parkinson disease. Some mutations appear to disturb the cell machinery that breaks down (degrades) unwanted proteins. As a result, un-degraded proteins accumulate, leading to the impairment or death of dopamine-producing neurons. Other mutations may involve mitochondria, the energy-producing structures within cells. As a byproduct of energy production, mitochondria make unstable molecules, called free radicals, that can damage the cell. Normally, the cell neutralizes free radicals, but some gene mutations may disrupt this neutralization process. As a result, free radicals may accumulate and impair or kill dopamine-producing neurons. In some families, alterations in the GBA, SNCAIP, or UCHL1 gene appear to modify the risk of developing Parkinson disease. Researchers have identified some genetic changes that may reduce the risk of developing the disease, while other gene alterations seem to increase the risk.

Question: Is Joubert syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Joubert syndrome inherited? Joubert syndrome is predominantly inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. Affected people inherit one mutated copy of the gene from each parent, who is referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have any signs or symptoms (they are unaffected). When 2 carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a: 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier. In rare cases, when Joubert syndrome is caused by mutations in the OFD1 gene on the X chromosome, it is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. X-linked recessive conditions usually occur in males, who only have one X chromosome (and one Y chromosome). Females have two X chromosomes, so if they have a mutation on one X chromosome, they still have a working copy of the gene on their other X chromosome and are typically unaffected. While females can have an X-linked recessive condition, it is very rare. If a mother is a carrier of an X-linked recessive condition and the father is not, the risk to children depends on each child's sex. Each male child has a 50% chance to be unaffected, and a 50% chance to be affected Each daughter has a 50% chance to be unaffected, and a 50% chance to be an unaffected carrier If a father has the condition and the mother is not a carrier, all sons will be unaffected, and all daughters will be unaffected carriers.

Question: Is Mitochondrial encephalomyopathy lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes inherited ?
Answer: How is mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS) inherited? MELAS is caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and is therefore transmitted by maternal inheritance (also called mitochondrial inheritance). This type of inheritance applies to all conditions caused by genes in mtDNA. Mitochondria are structures in each cell that turn molecules into energy, and each contain a small amount of DNA. Only egg cells (not sperm cells) contribute mitochondria to offspring, so only females can pass on mitochondrial mutations to their children. Conditions resulting from mutations in mtDNA can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females. In most cases, people with MELAS inherit an altered mitochondrial gene from their mother. Less commonly, the condition results from a new mutation in a mitochondrial gene and occurs in an individual with no history of MELAS in the family.

Question: Is Chiari malformation type 2 inherited ?
Answer: Is Chiari malformation type 2 inherited? Chiari malformation type 2 typically occurs sporadically (in individuals with no history of the condition in the family). However, the exact cause of Chiari malformation type 2 is not known. Genes may play a role in predisposing an individual to the condition, but environmental factors (such as lack of proper vitamins or nutrients in the maternal diet during pregnancy) may also contribute to the condition. Because the cause is unclear, it is not currently possible to estimate what the recurrence risk for family members may be. There have been reports in the medical literature of families in which more than one family member was affected with a Chiari malformation. However, a search of the available medical literature yields limited information specific to familial cases of Chiari malformation type 2. One article written by Lindenberg and Walker in 1971 describes the Arnold-Chiari malformation in 2 sisters; both also had hydrocephalus and meningomyelocele.

Question: Is Intellectual disability-developmental delay-contractures syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is intellectual disability-developmental delay-contractures syndrome inherited? Intellectual disability-developmental delay-contractures syndrome syndrome is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner and is caused by mutations in the ZC4H2 gene. A condition is considered X-linked if the gene with the mutation that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation must be present in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. As such, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one mutated copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. She can pass on the altered gene, but usually does not experience signs and symptoms of the disorder. Rarely, female carriers of a ZC4H2 gene mutation have been reported to exhibit mild symptoms.

Question: Is Tylosis with esophageal cancer inherited ?
Answer: How is Tylosis with esophageal cancer inherited? This condition has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means that a mutation in one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Affected individuals typically have one parent with the condition.

Question: Is Light chain deposition disease inherited ?
Answer: Is light chain deposition disease a genetic/inheritable disease? Currently, we are not aware of inherited genes or genetic factors that would increase a persons risk for developing light chain deposition disease. You can read more about risk factors for multiple myeloma and monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance at the following links to the MayoClinic.com Website. Multiple myeloma risk factors: http://www.mayoclinic.com/health/multiple-myeloma/DS00415/DSECTION=risk-factors Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance risk factors: http://www.mayoclinic.com/health/multiple-myeloma/DS00415/DSECTION=risk-factors

Question: Is Kallmann syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Kallmann syndrome inherited? Kallmann syndrome (KS) may be inherited in an X-linked recessive, autosomal dominant, or autosomal recessive manner depending on the gene(s) responsible. For example: KS due to mutations in the KAL1 gene (also called the ANOS1 gene), causing Kallmann syndrome 1, is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. KS due to mutations in the FGFR1, PROKR2, PROK2, CHD7 or FGF8 genes (causing KS types 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, respectively) is predominantly inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. KS due to mutations in PROKR2 and PROK2 can also be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. In the majority of people with KS, the family history appears to be negative (the condition occurs sporadically). However, affected people are still at risk to pass the disease-causing mutation(s) on to their children, or to have an affected child. The risk for each child to be affected depends on the genetic cause in the affected person and may be up to 50%. People with personal questions about the genetic cause and inheritance of KS are encouraged to speak with a genetic counselor or other genetics professional. The genetic cause in many cases remains unknown, and a thorough family history should be obtained to understand the mode of inheritance in each family and to aid in genetic testing and counseling. Information about specific features present or absent in all family members can help determine the mode of inheritance present.

Question: Is Leber hereditary optic neuropathy inherited ?
Answer: How is Leber hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) inherited? Leber hereditary optic neuropathy is an inherited condition that has a mitochondrial pattern of inheritance. The gene mutations that cause this condition are found in the mitochondrial DNA. Mitochondria are inherited from a person's mother, and as a result, only females pass mitochondrial conditions on to their children. Men can be affected, but they cannot pass the condition on to their children. Often, people who develop the features of Leber hereditary optic neuropathy have no family history of the condition. Because a person may carry a mitochondrial DNA mutation without experiencing any signs or symptoms, it is hard to predict which members of a family who carry a mutation will eventually develop vision loss or other medical problems associated with Leber hereditary optic neuropathy. It is important to note that all females with a mitochondrial DNA mutation, even those who do not have any signs or symptoms, will pass the genetic change to their children.

Question: Is Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome inherited?

Question: Is Congenital adrenal hyperplasia inherited ?
Answer: How is congenital adrenal hyperplasia inherited? All forms of congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Medium-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is medium-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase (MCAD) deficiency inherited? Medium-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency (MCADD) is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that both copies of the responsible gene in each cell must have mutations for a person to be affected. Usually, the parents of a person with an autosomal recessive condition each have one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not have any signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected, a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be a carrier like each parent, and a 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A inherited ?
Answer: How is multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A inherited? Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A (MEN 2A) is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. A person with MEN 2A often inherits the altered RET gene from one parent with the condition.

Question: Is Corneal endothelial dystrophy type 2 inherited ?
Answer: How is corneal endothelial dystropy type 2 inherited? Most cases of corneal endothelial dystrophy type 2 are caused by homozygous mutations in the SLC4A11 gene. The condition is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that two unaffected parents each carry one copy of a gene mutation for the condition. Neither parent will show signs or symptoms of the condition because two copies are needed for the condition to occur. There have been several families with corneal endothelial dystrophy type 2 where no mutation was found in the SLC4A11 gene. To find laboratories offering genetic testing to confirm a diagnosis, please visit the Tests and Diagnosis section of the Web site. http://rarediseases.info.nih.gov/gard/6196/ched2/resources/12

Question: Is Cri du chat syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is cri du chat syndrome inherited? Most cases of cri du chat syndrome are not inherited. The deletion occurs most often as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. Most affected individuals do not have a history of the disorder in their family.  About 10 percent of people with cri du chat syndrome inherit the chromosome abnormality from an unaffected parent. In these cases, the parent carries a chromosomal rearrangement called a balanced translocation, in which no genetic material is gained or lost. Balanced translocations  usually do not cause any health problems; however, they can become unbalanced as they are passed to the next generation. Children who inherit an unbalanced translocation can have a chromosomal rearrangement with extra or missing genetic material. Individuals with cri du chat syndrome who inherit an unbalanced translocation are missing genetic material from the short arm of chromosome 5. This results in the intellectual disability and other health problems characteristic of the disorder.

Question: Is Citrullinemia type I inherited ?
Answer: How is citrullinemia type I inherited? Citrullinemia type I is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Hyper-IgD syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is hyper IgD syndrome inherited? Hyper IgD syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. About one half of patients have a positive family history.

Question: Is Pyruvate carboxylase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is pyruvate carboxylase deficiency inherited? Pyruvate carboxylase deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that both copies of the disease-causing gene in each cell (usually one inherited from each parent) must have a mutation for an individual to be affected. Individuals who carry one mutated copy of the gene are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not have any signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers for an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be an unaffected carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% risk to not have the condition and not be a carrier (i.e. to inherit both normal genes). In other words, each child born to two carriers has a 75% (3 in 4) chance to be unaffected. De novo mutations (new mutations that occur for the first time in an individual and are not inherited from a parent) have been reported for this condition. This means that in some cases, an affected individual may have only one parent who is a carrier for the condition. Carrier testing for at-risk relatives and prenatal testing for pregnancies at increased risk may be possible through laboratories offering custom mutation analysis if the disease-causing mutations in a family are known. Individuals interested in learning more about genetic risks to themselves or family members, or about genetic testing for this condition, should speak with a genetics professional.

Question: Is Marfan syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Marfan syndrome inherited? Marfan syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. All individuals inherit 2 copies of each gene. In autosomal dominant conditions, an individual only has to have 1 mutation in the gene to develop the condition. The mutation can be inherited from a parent, or can happen by chance for the first time in an individual. Each child of an individual with Marfan syndrome has a 50% chance of inheriting the mutation and the disorder. Offspring who inherit the mutation will have Marfan syndrome, although they could be more or less severely affected than their parent.

Question: Is Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome inherited? Most cases of postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS) are not thought to be inherited. Although the condition generally occurs sporadically, some people with POTS do report a family history of orthostatic intolerance (an excessively reduced volume of blood returns to the heart when moving from a lying down to a standing position). This suggests that inherited factors may play a role in the development of POTS in some families.

Question: Is Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: How is limb-girdle muscular dystrophy inherited? Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD) is most often inherited in an autosomal recessive manner; less commonly, rare sub-types may be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.  There may be difficulties diagnosing the condition accurately, and often the mode of inheritance cannot be determined. Therefore, it may be challenging to determine the exact recurrence risks for some families. Establishing the type of LGMD in an affected individual can be useful for discussing the clinical course of the disease as well as for determining who else in the family may be at risk for the condition.

Question: Is Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1 inherited ?
Answer: How is pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1 inherited? Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1 (PCH1) is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the associated gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. This means that parents who are carriers of this condition have a 25% chance of having an affected child.

Question: Is Williams syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Williams syndrome inherited?

Question: Is Femoral facial syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is femoral facial syndrome inherited? The vast majority of cases of femoral facial syndrome (FFS) have been sporadic, not inherited. When a condition is sporadic, it means that it occurs in an individual who has no history of the condition in his/her family. Occurrence in more than one family member has been reported in three cases, but no sibling recurrences have been reported. Maternal diabetes has been recognized as a major factor causing FFS in more than 20% of the reported cases. The circumstances of the reported cases in the literature support non-genetic causes of FFS, such as teratogenic exposure. It is theoretically possible that the cause could sometimes be a new gene mutation occurring in the affected individual, or autosomal dominant inheritance with reduced penetrance.

Question: Is Mixed connective tissue disease inherited ?
Answer: Is mixed connective tissue disease inherited? The role of genetics in the onset of mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) is still unclear. Some people with MCTD have family members who are also affected by the condition. This suggests that in some cases, an inherited predisposition may contribute to the development of MCTD. People with an inherited or genetic predisposition have an increased risk of developing a certain condition due to their genes.

Question: Is Schindler disease type 1 inherited ?
Answer: How is Schindler disease type 1 inherited? Schindler disease type 1 is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. This means that both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically so not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Adenoid cystic carcinoma inherited ?
Answer: Is adenoid cystic carcinoma inherited? While the underlying cause of adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) is not known, no strong genetic risk factors have been identified. To our knowledge, only one case of apparent familial ACC has been reported worldwide. In this case, a father and daughter were both affected with ACC of the sublingual salivary gland. While ACC appears to generally be sporadic (occurring in people with no family history of ACC), there has been speculation about a possible linkage between salivary gland cancers in general and inherited BRCA gene mutations. However, this potential link needs further investigation. There has also been one report of a case of ACC of the salivary gland occurring in a person with basal cell nevus syndrome, a hereditary syndrome known to predispose affected people to a very wide range of tumors.

Question: Is Ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency inherited ?
Answer: How is ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency inherited? Ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency is an X-linked disorder. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), mutations in both copies of the gene will cause the disorder. Some females with only one altered copy of the OTC gene also show signs and symptoms of OTC deficiency.

Question: Is Camurati-Engelmann disease inherited ?
Answer: How is Camurati-Engelmann disease inherited? Camurati-Engelmann disease is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having a change (mutation) in only one copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause features of the condition. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutated gene from an affected parent. In other cases, the mutation occurs for the first time in a person with no family history of the condition. This is called a de novo mutation. When a person with a mutation that causes an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit that mutation.

Question: Is Afibrinogenemia inherited ?
Answer: Is afibrinogenemia an inherited condition? Afibrinogenemia is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, meaning that in order to be affected, an individual must have inherited two abnormal genes, one from each parent. The offspring of an individual with afibrinogenemia are obligate heterozygotes (carriers) for a disease-causing mutation in one of the fibrinogen genes. In order to be affected, these children would also have to inherit a mutated gene from their other parent.

Question: Is Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis inherited ?
Answer: Is amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) inherited? About 90-95% percent of cases of ALS are not inherited and occur in individuals with no history of the condition in their family. The remaining 5-10% of cases are familial, and are thought to be caused by mutations in any one of several genes. The inheritance pattern associated with familial ALS varies depending on the disease-causing gene involved. Most familial cases are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that only one altered (mutated) copy of the disease-causing gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In most of these cases, an affected individual has one parent with the condition. When an individual with an autosomal dominant form of ALS has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherited the mutated copy of the gene and be affected. Less frequently, ALS is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. In autosomal recessive inheritance, both copies of the disease-causing gene (typically one copy inherited from each parent) must have a mutation for the individual to be affected. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition, who presumably each carry one mutated copy of the gene, are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not have any signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers for the same condition are having children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each parent, and a 25% risk to not have the condition and not be a carrier. Autosomal recessive forms of ALS may be mistaken for non-inherited (sporadic) forms due to having a negative family history of the condition. In rare cases, ALS is inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. This occurs when the disease-causing gene is located on the X chromosome (a sex chromosome). Although females have 2 X chromosomes, having a mutation in one X chromosome is still sufficient to cause the condition. Males who have a mutation (and only one X chromosome) will have the condition. Usually, males with an X-linked dominant form of ALS experience more severe symptoms than females with the same form. Some individuals who do inherit a mutation known to cause ALS never develop signs and symptoms of ALS, although the reason for this is unclear. This phenomenon is referred to as reduced penetrance.

Question: Is Inclusion body myopathy 2 inherited ?
Answer: How is inclusion body myopathy 2 inherited? Inclusion body myopathy 2 is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.

Question: Is Adult-onset vitelliform macular dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: How is adult-onset vitelliform macular dystrophy inherited? The majority of cases with an identified family history or genetic cause are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that in order to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from a new (de novo) mutation in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. When caused by a known mutation inherited in an autosomal dominant manner, a person with adult-onset macular dystrophy (AVMD) has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.  The inheritance pattern of AVMD can be confusing as not all individuals with AVMD have a family history and not all individuals who inherit a causative gene mutation develop symptoms.

Question: Is Schwartz Jampel syndrome type 1 inherited ?
Answer: How is Schwartz Jampel syndrome type 1 inherited? The majority of cases of Schwartz Jampel syndrome type 1 (SJS1) are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. This means that to have the disorder, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. Individuals with SJS1 inherit one mutated copy of the gene from each parent, who is referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have any signs or symptoms (they are unaffected). Rarely, cases of SJS1 with autosomal dominant inheritance have been reported. This means that having a change (mutation) in only one copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause features of the condition.

Question: Is Pachyonychia congenita inherited ?
Answer: How is pachyonychia congenita inherited? Pachyonychia congenita (PC) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with PC has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is Factor V Leiden thrombophilia inherited ?
Answer: How is factor V Leiden inherited? Factor V Leiden is a genetic condition and can be inherited from a parent. It is important to understand that each person inherits two copies of every gene, one from their mother and the other copy from their father.  Individuals who inherit one copy of the factor V Leiden mutation from a parent are called heterozygotes. Heterozygotes have a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing the mutated gene to their offspring (and therefore they also have a 50% chance of having a child who does not inherit the gene mutation). People who inherit two copies of the mutation, one from each parent, are called homozygotes. Homozygotes will always pass one copy of the mutated gene to their offspring. If both parents are heterozygotes (carry one factor V Leiden mutation) than they would have a 25% chance of having a child with two factor V Leiden mutations, a 25% chance of having a child with no mutations, and a 50% chance of having a child with one mutation.

Question: Is Renal nutcracker syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is renal nutcracker syndrome inherited? Renal nutcracker syndrome is not inherited. Most cases occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. Although more than one family member may rarely be affected, this is thought to be a coincidence and not the result of a genetic predisposition.

Question: Is Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2F inherited ?
Answer: How is Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2F inherited? Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2F is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that only one mutated copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Most affected individuals inherit the mutated gene from an affected parent, but in some cases the mutation occurs for the first time in the affected individual (de novo mutation). When an individual with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the mutated gene and have the condition.

Question: Is Metachromatic leukodystrophy inherited ?
Answer: How is metachromatic leukodystrophy inherited? Metachromatic leukodystrophy is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that both copies of the disease-causing gene in each cell must have a mutation for an individual to be affected. Individuals inherit two copies of each gene - one copy from each parent. Typically, an individual is affected because they inherited a mutated copy of the gene from each parent. Individuals with one mutated copy of the gene (such as an unaffected parent of an affected individual) are referred to as carriers; carriers typically do not have any signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Liddle syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Liddle syndrome inherited? Liddle syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that only one mutated copy of the disease-causing gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. The mutated copy of the gene may be inherited from an affected parent or occur for the first time in an affected individual. Individuals with an autosomal dominant condition have a 50% (1 in 2) risk to pass the mutated copy of the gene on to each of his/her children.

Question: Is Pilocytic astrocytoma inherited ?
Answer: Are pilocytic astrocytomas inherited? Pilocytic astrocytomas are typically sporadic, occurring by chance in individuals with no history of the condition in the family. Sporadic abnormalities are not inherited from a parent and are not likely to recur in a family. Familial cases of isolated astrocytomas are very rare. Although most individuals with a pilocytic astrocytoma do not have an underlying genetic condition, astrocytomas have been associated with a few "predisposing" genetic syndromes. Individuals with these syndromes will not necessarily develop one; these tumors just occur with a greater frequency in affected individuals. Genetic syndromes in which astrocytomas have been reported to occur include: neurofibromatosis type 1 Turcot syndrome Li-Fraumeni syndrome tuberous sclerosis All of these genetic conditions follow an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Individuals who are interested in learning about personal genetic risks for these conditions and/or genetic testing options for themselves or family members should speak with a genetics professional.

Question: Is Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 inherited ?
Answer: How is multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 inherited? Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN1) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with MEN1 has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, progeroid type inherited ?
Answer: How is Ehlers-Danlos syndrome progeroid type inherited? Ehlers-Danlos syndrome progeroid type is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. This means that an individual must have two non-functional copies of the B4GALT7 gene to be affected with the condition. One copy is inherited from each parent. If an individual has only one non-functional B4GALT7 gene (such as each parent), he or she is a "carrier". Carriers do not typically show any signs or symptoms of a recessive condition. When two carriers for a recessive condition have children, with each pregnancy there is a 25% (1 in 4) risk for the child to be affected, a 50%  (1 in 2) risk for the child to be a carrier (like each parent) and a 25% risk that the child will be unaffected and also not be a carrier. An individual with a recessive condition will generally have unaffected children, except in the rare circumstance where his or her partner is a carrier of a nonfunctional B4GALT7 gene.

Question: Is Neurofibromatosis inherited ?
Answer: Is neurofibromatosis inherited? Neurofibromatosis is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with neurofibromatosis has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is IBIDS syndrome inherited ?
Answer: What causes Tay syndrome? How is it inherited? Although Tay syndrome is known to be genetic, the gene(s) associated with the condition is(are) unknown. Tay syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern , which means two copies of the gene in each cell are altered (mutated). If both parents carry the gene for Tay syndrome, their children have a 25% chance of being affected with Tay syndrome. Additionally, each child has a 50% chance of being an unaffected carrier, like their parents, and a 25% chance of being a non-carrier.

Question: Is Arts syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Arts syndrome inherited? Arts syndrome is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only 1 X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell sometimes causes the disorder. Females with one copy of the mutated gene are typically much less severely affected.by Arts syndrome than males. In many cases, they do not experience any symptoms.  In the small number of Arts syndrome cases that have been identified, affected individuals have inherited the mutation from a mother who carries an altered copy of the PRPS1 gene.

Question: Is Split hand split foot nystagmus inherited ?
Answer: How is split hand split foot nystagmus inherited? Split hand split foot nystagmus is thought to be inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. A person with an autosomal dominant condition has a 50% chance of passing the condition on to their children. Click here to learn more about autosomal dominant inheritance. Sometimes a person is the only one in their family with the autosomal dominant disorder. One explanation for this is that the person has a de novo or new mutation. De novo mutations refer to a change in a gene that is present for the first time in one family member as a result of a mutation in the mothers egg or fathers sperm, or in the fertilized egg itself. In addition, there have been a couple of case reports where unaffected parents had more than one child with split hand split foot nystagmus. It is thought that this may have been due to germline mosaicism. In germline mosaicism, one of the unaffected parents has the disease-causing genetic mutation in some of his/her eggs or sperm only. Click here to learn more about mosaicism.

Question: Is Situs inversus inherited ?
Answer: Is situs inversus inherited? The genetics of situs inversus is complex. Several familial cases have been reported in which the inheritance has been described as either autosomal recessive (most commonly), autosomal dominant, or X-linked. The condition appears to be genetically heterogeneous, meaning that different genetic factors or genes may cause the condition among different people or families. If situs inversus is associated with another underlying syndrome or condition, the inheritance pattern may be the same as that of the underlying condition. People with questions about genetic risks to themselves or family members are encouraged to speak with a genetics professional.

Question: Is Ankylosing spondylitis inherited ?
Answer: Is ankylosing spondylitis inherited? Although ankylosing spondylitis (AS) can affect more than one person in a family, it is not a purely genetic disease. While genes seem to play a role, the exact cause of AS is not known. It is considered to be multifactorial, which means that multiple genetic and environmental factors likely interact to affect a person's risk to develop AS. Most of these factors have not been identified. Inheriting a genetic variation that has been associated with AS does not mean a person will develop AS. Currently, it is not possible to predict the exact likelihood that the children of an affected person will develop the disease. You can find more information about the genetics of AS from Genetics Home Reference, the U.S National Library of Medicine's Web site for consumer information about genetic conditions and the genes or chromosomes related to those conditions.

Question: Is Spinocerebellar ataxia 2 inherited ?
Answer: How is spinocerebellar ataxia 2 inherited? Spinocerebellar ataxia 2 (SCA2) is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having one changed (mutated) copy of ATXN2 (the responsible gene) in each cell is enough to cause signs and symptoms of the condition. The ATXN2 gene mutations that cause SCA2 involve a DNA sequence called a 'CAG trinucleotide repeat.' It is made up of a series of three DNA building blocks (CAG stands for cytosine, adenine, and guanine) that appear multiple times in a row. The CAG sequence is normally repeated about 22 times in the gene, but it can be repeated up to 31 times without causing health problems. SCA2 develops in people who have 32 or more CAG repeats in the ATXN2 gene. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutated gene (with too many repeats) from an affected parent. However, in some cases, an affected person does not have an affected parent. People with an increased number of CAG repeats who don't develop SCA2 are still at risk of having children who will develop the disorder. This is because as the gene is passed down from parent to child, the number of CAG repeats often increases. In general, the more repeats a person has, the earlier symptoms begin. This phenomenon is called anticipation. People with 32 or 33 repeats tend to develop symptoms in late adulthood, while people with more than 45 repeats often have symptoms by their teens.  For some reason, the number of repeats tend to increase more when the gene is inherited from a person's father than when inherited from a person's mother. Each child of an affected person has a 50% chance of inheriting the CAG repeat expansion.

Question: Is Microhydranencephaly inherited ?
Answer: Is microhydranencephaly inherited? Most cases of microhydranencephaly occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. However, the condition can rarely affect more than one family member and be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. In these cases, an affected person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not have signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier.

Question: Is Schwannomatosis inherited ?
Answer: Is schwannomatosis inherited? Approximately 15% percent of all schwannomatosis cases are thought to be inherited. In these cases, the condition is thought to be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with highly variable expressivity and reduced penetrance. This means that a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell to have a genetic predisposition to the tumors associated with schwannomatosis. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. People with an inherited form of schwannomatosis have a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing the condition on to the next generation.

Question: Is Usher syndrome, type 1B inherited ?
Answer: How is Usher syndrome inherited? Usher syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that a person must have a change (mutation) in both copies of the disease-causing gene in each cell to have Usher syndrome. One mutated copy is typically inherited from each parent, who are each referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition usually do not have any signs or symptoms. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent, and a 25% chance to not be a carrier and not be affected.

Question: Is Partington syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Partington syndrome inherited? Partington syndrome is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the condition is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes (the Y chromosome is the other sex chromosome). Women have two X chromosomes and men have an X and a Y chromosome. In X-linked recessive conditions, men develop the condition if they inherit one gene mutation (they have only one X chromosome). Females are generally only affected if they have two gene mutations (they have two X chromosomes), although some females may rarely have a mild form of the condition if they only inherit one mutation. A woman with an X-linked recessive condition will pass the mutation on to all of her sons and daughters. This means that all of her sons will have the condition and all of her daughters will be carriers. A man with an X-linked recessive condition will pass the mutation to all of his daughters (carriers) and none of his sons.

Question: Is Systemic scleroderma inherited ?
Answer: Is systemic scleroderma inherited? Most cases of systemic scleroderma are sporadic and are not inherited. This means the condition typically occurs in people with no history of the condition in their family. Some people with systemic scleroderma have relatives with other autoimmune disorders, and a few cases of the condition have been reported to run in families. However, the condition is not caused by a single gene that is passed on to offspring. Multiple genetic and environmental factors likely interact to put someone at an increased risk to develop the condition.

Question: Is Spinocerebellar ataxia 11 inherited ?
Answer: How is spinocerebellar ataxia type 11 inherited? SCA11 is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. The rate of de novo mutations is not known. Each child of an individual with SCA11 has a 50% chance of inheriting the mutation. Prenatal diagnosis for at-risk pregnancies is possible if the diagnosis has been confirmed by molecular genetic testing in a parent. Each child of an individual with SCA11 has a 50% chance of inheriting the mutation. Genetic testing of adults who do not have any symptoms but are at-risk of having inherited the mutation is possible. However, testing is not useful in predicting age of onset, severity, type of symptoms, or rate of progression in individuals who do not have any symptom. The affected family member should be tested first to confirm the molecular diagnosis in the family. The best person who can answer questions and address any concerns about inheritance questions is a genetic professional. To find a genetics clinic, we recommend that you contact your primary healthcare provider for a referral. The following online resources can also help you find a genetics professional in your community:  GeneTests offers a searchable directory of U.S. and international genetics and prenatal diagnosis clinics. https://www.genetests.org/clinics  The National Society of Genetic Counselors provides a searchable directory of US and international genetic counseling services. http://nsgc.org/p/cm/ld/fid=164  The American College of Medical Genetics has a searchable database of US genetics clinics. https://www.acmg.net/ACMG/Find_Genetic_Services/ACMG/ISGweb/FindaGeneticService.aspx?hkey=720856ab-a827-42fb-a788-b618b15079f9  The University of Kansas Medical Center provides a list of US and international genetic centers, clinics, and departments. http://www.kumc.edu/GEC/prof/genecntr.html  The American Society of Human Genetics maintains a database of its members, which includes individuals who live outside of the United States. Visit the link to obtain a list of the geneticists in your country, some of whom may be researchers that do not provide medical care. http://www.ashg.org/pages/member_search.shtml The Genetic Testing Registry (GTR) is a centralized online resource for information about genetic tests. The intended audience for the GTR is health care providers and researchers. Patients and consumers with specific questions about a genetic test should contact a health care provider or a genetics professional. Please see a list of laboratories offering the genetic test for spinocerebellar ataxia type 11. For detailed information on testing, inheritance and genetic counseling and a comprehensive review of spinocerebellar ataxia type 11 you can visit GeneReviews. GeneReviews provides current, expert-authored, peer-reviewed, full-text articles describing the application of genetic testing to the diagnosis, management, and genetic counseling of patients with specific inherited conditions. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK1757/

Question: Is Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, vascular type inherited ?
Answer: Is Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, vascular type inherited? Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS), vascular type is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with EDS, vascular type has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy inherited ?
Answer: Is juvenile myoclonic epilepsy inherited? If I have juvenile myoclonic epilepsy, will my children also have it? Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy is an inherited disorder (about a third of patients with this condition have a positive family history of epilepsy), but the exact mode of inheritance is not clear. A number of studies have indicated that juvenile myoclonic epilepsy is an autosomal dominant condition (i.e. 50% risk of inheritance). However, it exhibits incomplete penetrance, which means that some individuals who inherit the juvenile myoclonic epilepsy gene or genes do not express clinical juvenile myoclonic epilepsy. The children of these individuals who have the gene but do not exhibit symptoms may still inherit the genes and express clinically observable disease. Due to the complex nature of inheritance with this condition, you may benefit from consulting with a genetics professional. This type of healthcare provider can provide you with additional information about diagnosis, natural history, treatment, mode of inheritance, and genetic risks to other family members. To find a genetics clinic, we recommend that you contact your primary doctor for a referral. Click here to learn more about genetic consultations.

Question: Is Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy inherited ?
Answer: How is oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy inherited?

Question: Is Proud syndrome inherited ?
Answer: How is Proud syndrome inherited? Proud syndrome is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the condition is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes (the Y chromosome is the other sex chromosome). Women have two X chromosomes and men have an X and a Y chromosome. In X-linked recessive conditions, men develop the condition if they inherit one gene mutation (they have only one X chromosome). Females are generally only affected if they have two gene mutations (they have two X chromosomes), although some females may rarely have a mild form of the condition if they only inherit one mutation. A woman with an X-linked recessive condition will pass the mutation on to all of her sons and daughters. This means that all of her sons will have the condition and all of her daughters will be carriers. A man with an X-linked recessive condition will pass the mutation to all of his daughters (carriers) and none of his sons.

Question: Is Congenital anosmia inherited ?
Answer: Is congenital anosmia inherited? Most cases of isolated congenital anosmia (not associated with additional symptoms) occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. Rarely, more than one family member may be affected. In these families, the condition appears to be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with reduced penetrance. Congenital anosmia can also by associated with specific genetic disorders such as Kallmann syndrome and congenital insensitivity to pain. In these cases, the inheritance varies based on the associated condition. For example, Kallmann syndrome can be inherited in an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive or X-linked recessive manner depending on the underlying genetic cause (it can be caused by mutations in several different genes). Congenital insensitivity to pain follows an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance.

Question: Is Chronic hiccups inherited ?
Answer: Are chronic hiccups inherited? Chronic hiccups are not thought to be inherited. Most cases occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition.

Question: Is Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia inherited ?
Answer: How is multiple epiphyseal dysplasia inherited? Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia (MED) may be inherited in an autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive manner depending on the genetic cause. Most cases are autosomal dominant. In autosomal dominant inheritance, having a mutation in only one of the 2 copies of the responsible gene is enough to cause the condition. The mutation may be inherited from a parent or can occur for the first time in the affected person. Each child of a person with an autosomal dominant condition has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the mutation. More rarely, MED is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. In autosomal recessive inheritance, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene to be affected. The parents of a person with an autosomal recessive condition usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not have signs or symptoms and are unaffected. When two carriers for the same condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected, a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be a carrier like each parent, and a 25% to be both unaffected and not a carrier.

Question: Is Congenital contractural arachnodactyly inherited ?
Answer: How is congenital contractural arachnodactyly inherited? This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Beta-thalassemia inherited ?
Answer: How is beta-thalassemia inherited? Beta-thalassemia major and beta-thalassemia intermedia are usually inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, which means both copies of the HBB gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of a person with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene and are referred to as carriers. When two carriers have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected, a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be a carrier like each parent, and a 25% (1 in 4) chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier. Sometimes, people with only one HBB gene mutation in each cell (carriers) do have mild anemia. These people are said to have 'beta-thalassemia minor' or 'beta-thalassemia trait.'  In a small percentage of families, the condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. In these cases, one mutated copy of the gene in each cell is enough to cause the signs and symptoms of beta-thalassemia.

Question: Is Abdominal aortic aneurysm inherited ?
Answer: Is abdominal aortic aneurysm inherited? Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is thought to be a multifactorial condition, meaning that one or more genes likely interact with environmental factors to cause the condition. In some cases, it may occur as part of an inherited syndrome. Having a family history of AAA increases the risk of developing the condition. A genetic predisposition has been suspected since the first report of three brothers who had a ruptured AAA, and additional families with multiple affected relatives have been reported. In some cases, it may be referred to as " familial abdominal aortic aneurysm." A Swedish survey reported that the relative risk of developing AAA for a first-degree relative of a person with AAA was approximately double that of a person with no family history of AAA. In another study, having a family history increased the risk of having an aneurysm 4.3-fold. The highest risk was among brothers older than age 60, in whom the prevalence was 18%. While specific variations in DNA (polymorphisms) are known or suspected to increase the risk for AAA, no one gene is known to cause isolated AAA. It can occur with some inherited disorders that are caused by mutations in a single gene, such as Marfan syndrome and Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, vascular type. However, these more typically involve the thoracoabdominal aorta. Because the inheritance of AAA is complex, it is not possible to predict whether a specific person will develop AAA. People interested in learning more about the genetics of AAA, and how their family history affects risks to specific family members, should speak with a genetics professional.

Question: Is Basilar migraine inherited ?
Answer: Are basilar migraines inherited? In most cases, basilar migraines are not inherited. However, the susceptibility to basilar migraines may rarely be caused by a change (mutation) in the ATP1A2 gene or CACNA1A gene. In these cases, they are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a mutation in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with one of these mutations has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child.

Question: Is Currarino triad inherited ?
Answer: How is Currarino triad inherited? Currarino triad is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having a change (mutation) in only one copy of the MNX1 gene in each cell is enough to cause features of the condition. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutated gene from an affected parent. In other cases, the mutation occurs for the first time in a person with no family history of the condition. This is called a de novo mutation. When a person with a mutation that causes an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit that mutation. A significant interfamilial (between different families) and intrafamilial (within the same family) variability in expression has been found without any definite correlation to the genetic mutations. This means in one family, a parent might only have one very mild feature of Currarino triad while one of their children might have severe forms of all three features and yet another child might have a mild form of one feature and a severe form of another.

Question: Is Tracheobronchomalacia inherited ?
Answer: Is tracheobronchomalacia inherited? Primary tracheobronchomalacia (TBM) is often associated with certain genetic conditions. In some cases, an affected person inherits the condition from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) gene mutations. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. When TBM is part of a genetic condition, it can be passed on to future generations. Secondary TBM (also called acquired TBM) is not inherited. It generally occurs incidentally due to trauma, chronic inflammation and/or prolonged compression of the airways.

Question: Is Amelogenesis imperfecta inherited ?
Answer: How is amelogenesis imperfecta inherited? Amelogenesis imperfecta can have different patterns of inheritance, depending on the gene that is altered. Most cases are caused by mutations in the ENAM gene and are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. This type of inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Amelogenesis imperfecta may also be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern; this form of the disorder can result from mutations in the ENAM or MMP20 gene. Autosomal recessive inheritance means two copies of the gene in each cell are altered. About 5 percent of amelogenesis imperfecta cases are caused by mutations in the AMELX gene and are inherited in an X-linked pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In most cases, males with X-linked amelogenesis imperfecta experience more severe dental abnormalities than females with this form of this condition. Other cases of amelogenesis imperfecta result from new mutations in these genes and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.

Question: Is Von Hippel-Lindau disease inherited ?
Answer: How is von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease inherited? Mutations in the gene that causes VHL disease (the VHL gene) are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having a mutation in only one copy of the VHL gene in each cell is enough to increase a person's risk of developing VHL disease. In most autosomal dominant conditions, having one mutated copy of the responsible gene is sufficient to cause the condition. However, in VHL disease, a mutation in the other copy of the gene must occur (during a person's lifetime) to trigger the development of VHL disease. For example, a person may inherit a mutated copy of the gene from a parent, but acquiring a second mutation in the other gene copy in a specific organ may trigger tumor development in that organ. Almost everyone who is born with one VHL mutation will eventually acquire a mutation in the second copy of the gene and develop VHL disease. In most cases, an affected person inherits the first mutated gene from an affected parent. However, in about 20% of cases, the mutation occurs for the first time in a person with no family history of the condition. This is called a de novo mutation. When a person with a mutation that can lead to VHL disease has children, each of their children has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit that mutation.

Question: Is Meningoencephalocele inherited ?
Answer: Is meningoencephalocele inherited? Meningoencephalocele is not thought to be an inherited condition. Studies have proposed that meningoencephalocele is likely a multifactorial defect. This means that both environmental factors and multiple genes may interact with each other to cause the condition. Studies have suggested that environmental factors probably play an important role. This information is supported by the fact that several studies have not identified the condition among close relatives of affected individuals. To date, there have been no genes identified that are likely to play a strong part in causing the condition.

Question: Is Parsonage Turner syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Parsonage Turner syndrome inherited? Parsonage Turner syndrome, which is also known as idiopathic neuralgic amyotrophy, is not inherited. However, an inherited form of neuralgic amyotrophy does exist, which is passed down through families in an autosomal dominant manner. For more information on hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy, please click here.

Question: Is Tietze syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is Tietze syndrome inherited? Tietze syndrome is not thought to be inherited. Most cases occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition.

Question: Is Geniospasm inherited ?
Answer: How is hereditary geniospasm inherited? Hereditary geniospasm is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having only one mutated copy of the causative gene in each body cell is sufficient to cause signs and symptoms of the condition. When an individual with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit the mutated copy of the gene and also be affected. Because there is a 50% chance for each child, it is possible for all of the children of an affected individual to be affected, or likewise, for all of the children to be unaffected.

Question: Is Osteomesopyknosis inherited ?
Answer: How is osteomesopyknosis inherited? Osteomesopyknosis is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having only one mutated copy of the responsible gene (which has not yet been identified) is enough to cause signs or symptoms of the disorder. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be affected. There have been reported cases where both parents of an affected person did not appear to have the condition. The chance of having signs and symptoms when the responsible mutation is present (penetrance), and potential nature of signs and symptoms (expressivity), is not clear.

Question: Is MECP2 duplication syndrome inherited ?
Answer: Is MECP2 duplication syndrome inherited? MECP2 duplication syndrome is inherited in an X-linked manner. A condition is considered X-linked if the genetic change that causes the condition is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes (the Y chromosome is the other sex chromosome). In males (who have only one X chromosome), a duplication of the MECP2 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a duplication of one of the two copies of the gene typically does not cause the disorder. Early in the development of females, one of the two X chromosomes is randomly and permanently inactivated in each cell (called X-inactivation). X-inactivation prevents female cells from having twice as many functional X chromosomes as males. Because X-inactivation is usually random, the X chromosome inherited from the mother is active in some cells, and the X chromosome inherited from the father is active in other cells. However, when a female has an X chromosome with a duplicated copy of the MECP2 gene, the abnormal chromosome is often preferentially inactivated in many or all cells. This is called "skewed X-inactivation." It prevents some women with an MECP2 duplication from developing features of the duplication since the extra genetic material is not active. In most cases, MECP2 duplication syndrome is inherited from a mother who has no signs or symptoms of the duplication. Rarely, the condition is not inherited and occurs due to a random event during the formation of the egg or sperm, or in early fetal development. When this happens, it is called a de novo duplication (occurring as a new genetic change for the first time in the affected person).

Question: Is Juvenile Huntington disease inherited ?
Answer: How is Juvenile Huntington disease (HD) inherited? Juvenile HD is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner, which means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. An affected person usually inherits the altered gene from one affected parent. As the altered HTT gene is passed from one generation to the next, the size of the CAG trinucleotide repeat often increases in size. A larger number of repeats is usually associated with an earlier onset of signs and symptoms (anticipation). A larger number of repeats is usually associated with an earlier onset of signs and symptoms. Most often, children with juvenile HD inherit the expanded CAG trinucleotide repeat from their fathers, although on occasion they inherit it from their mothers.

