Question: what research is being done for Tuberculosis (TB) ?
Answer: TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortium
  
 The TB Epidemiologic Studies Consortium (TBESC) was established to strengthen, focus, and coordinate tuberculosis (TB) research. The TBESC is designed to build the scientific research capacities of state and metropolitan TB control programs, participating laboratories, academic institutions, hospitals, and both non- and for-profit organizations.
                
  TB Trials Consortium
  
 The TB Trials Consortium (TBTC) is a collaboration of North American and international clinical investigators whose mission is to conduct programmatically relevant research concerning the diagnosis, clinical management, and prevention of TB infection and disease.
  Behavioral and Social Science Research
  Behavioral and social science research has the potential to make a tremendous impact on TB elimination efforts. This research is needed to 1) understand how behaviors of both patients and providers affect TB-related care seeking, diagnosis, treatment success, and prevention; and 2) understand how other social, cultural, and environmental influences affect health seeking and treatment outcomes related to TB.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Striatonigral Degeneration ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts research on disorders of the brain and nervous system such as striatonigral degeneration. This research focuses on finding ways to prevent and treat these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Empty Sella Syndrome ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system, and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS supports and conducts fundamental studies that explore the complex mechanisms of normal brain development and to better understand neurological conditions such as ESS. The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies helps researchers understand neurodevelopment and provides opportunities to more effectively treat and perhaps even prevent, such disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Primary Lateral Sclerosis ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts a broad range of research on neuromuscular disorders such as PLS. This research is aimed at developing techniques to diagnose, treat, prevent, and ultimately cure these devastating diseases.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Dystonias ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research related to dystonia in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and also supports additional dystonia research through grants to major research institutions across the country. Scientists at other NIH Institutes (National institute on Deafness and Other Communications Disorders, National Eye Institute, and Eunice Kennnedy Shriver National Institute on Child Health and Human Development) also support research that may benefit individuals with dystonia. Investigators believe that the dystonias result from an abnormality in an area of the brain called the basal ganglia, where some of the messages that initiate muscle contractions are processed. Scientists at the NINDS laboratories have conducted detailed investigations of the pattern of muscle activity in persons with dystonias. Studies using EEG analysis and neuroimaging are probing brain activity. The search for the gene or genes responsible for some forms of dominantly inherited dystonias continues.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Farber's Disease ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. Research funded by the NINDS focuses on better understanding of how neurological deficits arise in lipid storage diseases and on the development of new treatments targeting disease mechanisms, including gene therapies, cell-based therapies and pharmacological approaches. The NINDS, along with other Institutes and Centers at the National Institutes of Health, supports the Lysosomal Disease network of centers that addresses some of the major challenges in the diagnosis, management, and therapy of rare diseases, including the lipid storage diseases.Research on lipid storage diseases within the Network includes longitudinal studies of the natural history and/or treatment of these disorders. Additional studies will emphasize the quantitative analysis of the central nervous system structure and function, and develop biomarkers (signs that can indicate the diagnosis or progression of a disease) for these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Familial Periodic Paralyses ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports research on neuromuscular disorders such as the familial periodic paralyses. These studies are aimed at increasing knowledge about these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Spinal Cord Injury ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts spinal cord research in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and also supports additional research through grants to major research institutions across the country. Advances in research are giving doctors and patients hope that repairing injured spinal cords is a reachable goal. Advances in basic research are also being matched by progress in clinical research, especially in understanding the kinds of physical rehabilitation that work best to restore function. Some of the more promising rehabilitation techniques are helping spinal cord injury patients become more mobile.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Todd's Paralysis ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research related to Todd's paralysis in its clinics and laboratories at The National Institutes of Health (NIH), and supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding successful methods to prevent Todd's paralysis in individuals with epilepsy.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Syncope ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to syncope in laboratories at the NIH and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent and treat syncope.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Cerebral Palsy ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge of the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease.The NINDS is a component of the National Institutes of Health, the leading supporter of biomedical research in the world. Researchers supported by the NINDS are investigating the roles of mishaps early in brain development, including genetic defects, which are sometimes responsible for the brain malformations and abnormalities that result in cerebral palsy.Scientists are also looking at traumatic events in newborn babies brains, such as bleeding, epileptic seizures, and breathing and circulation problems, which can cause the abnormal release of chemicals that trigger the kind of damage that causes cerebral palsy. NINDS-supported researchers also hope to find ways to prevent white matter disease, the most common cause of cerebral palsy. To make sure children are getting the right kinds of therapies, studies are also being done that evaluate both experimental treatments and treatments already in use so that physicians and parents have valid information to help them choose the best therapy.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Tuberous Sclerosis ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts TSC research in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and also supports TSC research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Scientists in one study are learning more about the genes that can cause TSC and the function of the proteins those genes produce. Another study focuses on two major brain disorders --autism and epilepsy -- that occur in children with TSC. Other scientists are trying to determine what causes skin tumors to develop in individuals with TSC and to find the molecular basis of these tumors. Scientists hope knowledge gained from their current research will improve the genetic test for TSC and lead to new avenues of treatment, methods of prevention, and, ultimately, a cure.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Batten Disease ?
Answer: The biochemical defects that underlie several NCLs have recently been discovered. An enzyme called palmitoyl-protein thioesterase has been shown to be insufficiently active in the infantile form of Batten disease (this condition is now referred to as CLN1). In the late infantile form (CLN2), a deficiency of an acid protease, an enzyme that hydrolyzes proteins, has been found as the cause of this condition. A mutated gene has been identified in juvenile Batten disease (CLN3), but the protein for which this gene codes has not been identified. In addition, research scientists are working with NCL animal models to improve understanding and treatment of these disorders. One research team, for example, is testing the usefulness of bone marrow transplantation in a sheep model, while other investigators are working to develop mouse models. Mouse models will make it easier for scientists to study the genetics of these diseases.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Holoprosencephaly ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts a wide range of studies that focus on identifying and learning more about the factors involved in normal brain development. Recent research has identified specific genes that cause holoprosencephaly. The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies provides the foundation for understanding how to develop new ways to treat, and potentially prevent, this disorder.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Bell's Palsy ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge of the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS conducts and supports an extensive research program of basic science to increase understanding of how the nervous system works and circumstances that lead to nerve damage. Knowledge gained from this research may help scientists find the definitive cause of Bell's palsy, leading to the discovery of new effective treatments for the disorder. Other NINDS-supported research is aimed at developing methods to repair damaged nerves and restore full use and strength to injured areas, and finding ways to prevent nerve damage and injuries from occurring.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Multiple System Atrophy ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research about MSA through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Researchers hope to learn why alpha-synuclein buildup occurs in MSA and Parkinsons disease, and how to prevent it. Drugs that reduce the abnormal alpha-synuclein buildup may be promising treatments for MSA

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Giant Axonal Neuropathy ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) supports research related to GAN through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure inherited neurological disorders such as GAN.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Thoracic Outlet Syndrome ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes at the National Institutes of Health support research in TOS through grants to major medical research institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to diagnose and treat TOS.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Angelman Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts research on neurogenetic disorders such as Angelman syndrome, to develop techniques to diagnose, treat, prevent, and ultimately cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Inclusion Body Myositis ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS), National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research relating to IBM in laboratories at the NIH and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Currently funded research is exploring patterns of gene expression among the inflammatory myopathies, the role of viral infection as a precursor to the disorders, and the safety and efficacy of various treatment regimens.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Subacute Sclerosing Panencephalitis ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes at the National Institutes of Health conduct research related to SSPE in their clinics and laboratories and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat and ultimately cure SSPE.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Hemifacial Spasm ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts and supports research related to hemifacial spams through grants to major research institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure neurological disorders, such as hemifacial spasm.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Olivopontocerebellar Atrophy ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts a broad range of basic and clinical research on cerebellar degeneration, including work aimed at finding the cause(s) of OPCA and ways to treat, cure, and, ultimately, prevent the disease. There has been great progress recently since the genes for several of the hereditary forms of OPCA have been found.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Multifocal Motor Neuropathy ?
Answer: The NINDS supports a broad range of research on neuromuscular disorders with the goal of finding ways to prevent, treat, and, ultimately, cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Occipital Neuralgia ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes at the National Institutes of Health conduct research related to pain and occipital neuralgia in their clinics and laboratories and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on understanding the basic mechanisms of pain and testing treatments in order to find better ways to treat occipital neuralgia.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Arachnoiditis ?
Answer: Within the NINDS research programs, arachnoiditis is addressed primarily through studies associated with pain research. NINDS vigorously pursues a research program seeking new treatments for pain and nerve damage with the ultimate goal of reversing debilitating conditions such as arachnoiditis.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Craniosynostosis ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system, and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS conducts and supports a wide range of studies that explore the complex mechanisms of brain development. The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies provides the foundation for understanding how this process can change and offers hope for new ways to treat and prevent birth defects that can prevent normal brain development, such as craniosynostosis.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Cavernous Malformation ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system, and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. Studies of cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) show that alterations in the function of structural proteins may also give rise to vascular malformations. Currently there is no therapy to prevent the development or progression of CCMs. NINDS-funded scientists have developed an animal model that studies two of the familial genes related to the development of CCMs. Research shows that the protein signaling pathway Rhoa/ROCK, which allows cells to communicate regarding the formation of cell structure, is involved in blood vessel activity/ and the flow of molecules and cells into and out of blood vessels. These scientists hypothesize that blocking ROCK activity will inhibit CCM development and hemorrhage, and possibly create a therapy for these malformations.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Locked-In Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on neurological disorders that can cause locked-in syndrome. The goals of this research are to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Machado-Joseph Disease ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on Lyme disease. Current areas of interest include improving diagnostic tests and developing more effective treatments. The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS), and the National Center for Research Resources (NCRR), all parts of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), also support research on Lyme disease.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Acid Lipase Disease ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge abut the brain and nervous system, and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological diseaset. The NINDS conducts and supports research to understand lipid storage diseases such as acid lipase deficiency. Additional research studies hope to identify biomarkers (signs that may indicate risk of a disease and improve diagnosis) for thee lipid storage diseases that will speed the development of novel therapeutics for these disorders. Other investigators hope to establish an international disease registry designed to collect longitudinal data that would be used to improve the care and treatment of individuals with lysosomal acid lipase deficiency.
                
The National Library of Medicine (NLM), a part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, offers free searches of biomedical literature through an Internet service called PubMed. To search, go to: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/PubMed . The NLM also offers extensive health information from NIH and other trusted sources. To research your condition, go to: http://www.medlineplus.gov .

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Agenesis of the Corpus Callosum ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS conducts and supports a wide range of studies that explore the complex mechanisms of normal brain development. NINDS-funded research includes studies to understand the genetic causes of ACC, as well as to understand how magnetic resonance imaging findings may help predict outcome and response to therapy.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Trigeminal Neuralgia ?
Answer: Within the NINDS research programs, trigeminal neuralgia is addressed primarily through studies associated with pain research. NINDS vigorously pursues a research program seeking new treatments for pain and nerve damage with the ultimate goal of reversing debilitating conditions such as trigeminal neuralgia. NINDS has notified research investigators that it is seeking grant applications both in basic and clinical pain research.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Neuronal Migration Disorders ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports a wide range of studies that explore the complex systems of brain development. These studies include the identification of the mechanism of action of the known causes of NMD as well as studies to identify further causes of disease. NIH-funded researchers work closely with parental support groups to bring research discoveries directly to patients. The knowledge gained from these studies provides the foundation for understanding abnormal development and offers hope for new ways to treat and prevent NMDs.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Autism ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. As part of the Childrens Health Act of 2000, the NINDS and three sister institutes have formed the NIH Autism Coordinating Committee to expand, intensify, and coordinate NIHs autism research. As part of the Childrens Health Act of 2000, the NINDS and three sister institutes have formed the NIH Autism Coordinating Committee to expand, intensify, and coordinate NIHs autism research. Eight dedicated research centers across the country have been established as Centers of Excellence in Autism Research to bring together researchers and the resources they need.  The Centers are conducting basic and clinical research, including investigations into causes, diagnosis, early detection, prevention, and treatment of autism.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Meningitis and Encephalitis ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS is a component of the National Institutes of Health, the leading supporter of biomedical research in the world. Current research efforts include gaining a better understanding of how the central nervous system responds to inflammation in the brain, as well as to better understand the molecular mechanisms involved in the protection and disruption of the blood-brain barrier, which could lead to the development of new treatments for several neuroinflammatory diseases such as meningitis and encephalitis.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for SUNCT Headache ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts a wide range of research on headache disorders. This research aims to discover ways to better diagnose, treat, and ultimately, prevent these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Dyslexia ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) support dyslexia research through grants to major research institutions across the country. Current research avenues focus on developing techniques to diagnose and treat dyslexia and other learning disabilities, increasing the understanding of the biological and possible genetic bases of learning disabilities, and exploring the relationship between neurophysiological processes and cognitive functions with regard to reading ability.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Aphasia ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke and the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders conduct and support a broad range of scientific investigations to increase our understanding of aphasia, find better treatments, and discover improved methods to restore lost function to people who have aphasia.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Colpocephaly ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), conduct research related to colpocephaly and other cephalic disorders in laboratories at the NIH, and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding ways to prevent brain abnormalities such as colpocephaly.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Benign Essential Blepharospasm ?
Answer: The NINDS supports a broad program of research on disorders of the nervous system, including BEB. Much of this research is aimed at increasing understanding of these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Traumatic Brain Injury ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) supports TBI research through grants to major medical institutions across the country and conducts TBI research in its intramural laboratories and Clinical Center at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in Bethesda,Maryland. The Center for Neuroscience and Regenerative Medicine (CNRM) is a TBI research collaboration between intramural NIH and the Uniformed Services University for the Health Sciences (USUHS). NINDS-funded research involves studies in the laboratory and in clinical settings to better understand TBI and the biological mechanisms underlying damage to the brain. This research will allow scientists to develop strategies and interventions to limit the primary and secondary brain damage that occurs within days of a head trauma, and to devise therapies to treat brain injury and improve long-term recovery of function.
                
More information about Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) Research is available at: http://www.ninds.nih.gov/research/tbi/index.htm
                
More information about CNRM clinical studies is available at: http://cnrmstudies.org/

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Polymyositis ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research relating to polymyositis in laboratories at the NIH and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Currently funded research is exploring patterns of gene expression among the inflammatory myopathies, the role of viral infection as a precursor to the disorders, and the safety and efficacy of various treatment regimens.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Wallenberg's Syndrome ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research related to Wallenbergs syndrome in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as Wallenbergs syndrome.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Monomelic Amyotrophy ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports a broad range of research on motor neuron diseases. The goals of these studies are to increase understanding of these disorders and to find ways to treat, prevent, and ultimately cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Gerstmann's Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on disorders that result from damage to the brain such as dysgraphia. The NINDS and other components of the National Institutes of Health also support research on learning disabilities. Current research avenues focus on developing techniques to diagnose and treat learning disabilities and increase understanding of the biological basis of them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Whiplash ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports research on trauma-related disorders such as whiplash. Much of this research focuses on increasing scientific understanding of these disorders and finding ways to prevent and treat them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Tardive Dyskinesia ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports a broad range of research on movement disorders including tardive dyskinesia. The goals of this research are to improve understanding of these disorders and to discover ways to treat, prevent, and, ultimately, cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Isaacs' Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports an extensive research program of basic studies to increase understanding of diseases that affect the brain, spinal cord, muscles, and nerves. This research examines the genetics, symptoms, progression, and psychological and behavioral impact of diseases, with the goal of improving ways to diagnose, treat, and, ultimately, cure these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Learning Disabilities ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other Institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) support research learning disabilities through grants to major research institutions across the country. Current research avenues focus on developing techniques to diagnose and treat learning disabilities and increase understanding of their biological basis.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Spasticity ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on brain and spinal cord disorders that can cause spasticity. The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding about these disorders and to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Prosopagnosia ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research related to prosopagnosia in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders, such as prosopagnosia.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Lesch-Nyhan Syndrome ?
Answer: The gene associated with LNS is known. The NINDS supports and conducts research on genetic disorders such as LNS in an effort to find ways to prevent and treat these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Deep Brain Stimulation for Parkinson's Disease ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), a part of the National institutes of Health (NIH), supports research on DBS to determine its safety, reliability, and effectiveness as a treatment for PD. NINDS supported research on brain circuitry was critical to the development of DBS.
                
Researchers are continuing to study DBS and to develop ways of improving it. A two-part study funded by the NINDS and the Department of Veterans Affairs first compared bilateral DBS to best medical therapy, including medication adjustment and physical therapy. Bilateral DBS showed overall superiority to best medical therapy at improving motor symptoms and quality of life. The second part of the study, involving nearly 300 patients, compared subthalamic nucleus (STN) DBS to globus pallidus interna (GPI) DBS. The two groups reported similar improvements in motor control and quality of life in scores on the Unified Parkinsons Disease Rating Scale. On a variety of neuropsychological tests, there were no significant differences between the two groups. However, the STN DBS group experienced a greater decline on a test of visuomotor processing speed, which measures how quickly someone thinks and acts on information. Also, the STN DBS group had slight worsening on a standard assessment of depression, while the GPI DBS group had slight improvement on the same test. The importance of these two differences is not clear, and will be scrutinized in follow-up research.
                
In addition, NINDS-supported researchers are developing and testing improved implantable pulse generators, and conducting studies to better understand the therapeutic effect of neurostimulation on neural circuitry and brain regions affected in PD. For more information about current studies on brain stimulation and Parkinsons disease, see www.clinicaltrials.gov and search for deep brain stimulation AND Parkinson AND NINDS. For information about NINDS-and NIH-supported research studies in this area, see the NIH RePORTER (Research Portfolio Online Reporting Tools) at http://projectreporter.nih.gov and search for deep brain stimulation AND Parkinson.
                
The Brain Initiative for Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) initiative, announced in 2013, offers unprecedented opportunities to unlock the mysteries of the brain and accelerate the development of research and technologies to treat disorders such as Parkinsons disease. For more information about the BRAIN initiative, see www.nih.gov/science/brain.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on neuromuscular disorders such as LEMS with the ultimate goal of finding ways to treat, prevent, and cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Swallowing Disorders ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes at the National Institutes of Health conduct research related to dysphagia in their clinics and laboratories and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to treat dysphagia.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Post-Polio Syndrome ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to PPS in laboratories at the NIH, and also support additional PPS research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Absence of the Septum Pellucidum ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system ad to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS conducts and supports a wide range of studies that explore the complex mechanisms of normal brain development. The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies provides the foundation for understanding how this process can go awry and offers hope for new means to treat and prevent developmental brain disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Peripheral Neuropathy ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to peripheral neuropathies in laboratories at the NIH and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Current research projects funded by the NINDS involve investigations of genetic factors associated with hereditary neuropathies, studies of biological mechanisms involved in diabetes-associated neuropathies, and investigations exploring how the immune system contributes to peripheral nerve damage. Neuropathic pain is a primary target of NINDS-sponsored studies aimed at developing more effective therapies for symptoms of peripheral neuropathy. Some scientists hope to identify substances that will block the brain chemicals that generate pain signals, while others are investigating the pathways by which pain signals reach the brain.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Microcephaly ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), one of several institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), conducts and funds research aimed at understanding normal brain development, as well as disease-related disorders of the brain and nervous system. Other NIH institutes and centers also support research on disorders that may affect development. Among several projects, scientists are studying genetic mechanisms and identifying novel genes involved with brain development. Animal models are helping scientists to better understand the pathology of human disease, and to discover how the sizes of tissues and organs are impacted by developmental variability. Other researchers hope to gain a better understanding of normal brain development and the molecular and cellular mechanisms of microcephaly.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Erb-Duchenne and Dejerine-Klumpke Palsies ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports research on injuries to the nervous system such as brachial plexus injuries. Much of this research is aimed at finding ways to prevent and treat these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Dementia With Lewy Bodies ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health conduct research related to DLB in laboratories at the NIH and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on searching for the genetic roots of DLB, exploring the molecular mechanisms of alpha-synuclein accumulation, and discovering how Lewy bodies cause the particular symptoms of DLB and the other synucleinopathies. The goal of NINDS research is to find better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as DLB.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Encephalitis Lethargica ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on disorders that affect the brain, such as encephalitis lethargica, with the goal of finding ways to prevent and treat them. (The disease was the subject of the book and film, "Awakenings.")

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Cephalic Disorders ?
Answer: Scientists are rapidly learning how harmful insults, a critical nutritional deficiency, or exposure to an environmental insult at various stages of pregnancy can lead to developmental disorders. Research projects currently underway include a study to evaluate increased risk of neural tube defects and various other congenital malformations in association with environmental and occupational exposure to pesticides. Scientists are also concentrating their efforts on understanding the complex processes responsible for normal early development of the brain and nervous system and how the disruption of any of these processes results in congenital anomalies such as cephalic disorders. Currently, researchers are examining the mechanisms involved in neurulation -- the process of forming the neural tube. Investigators are also conducting a variety of genetic studies. Understanding how genes control brain cell migration, proliferation, differentiation, and death, and how radiation, drugs, toxins, infections, and other factors disrupt these processes will aid in preventing many congenital neurological disorders. Recent studies have shown that the addition of folic acid to the diet of women of child-bearing age may significantly reduce the incidence of neural tube defects. Therefore, it is recommended that all women of child-bearing age consume 0.4 mg of folic acid daily.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Multi-Infarct Dementia ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research related to MID in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure the vascular dementias, such as MID.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Febrile Seizures ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research on seizures at its research center in Bethesda, Maryland, and through grants to major medical institutions across the country. NINDS-supported scientists are exploring environmental, biological, and genetic risk factors that might make children susceptible to febrile seizures. Investigators continue to monitor the long-term impact that febrile seizures might have on intelligence, behavior, school achievement, and the development of epilepsy. Investigators also continue to explore which drugs can effectively treat or prevent febrile seizures, and to identify factors that may cause a child who has prolonged febrile seizures to develop temporal lobe epilepsy.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports research on neurological disorders, including normal pressure hydrocephalus. Research on disorders such as normal pressure hydrocephalus focuses on increasing knowledge and understanding of the disorder, improving diagnostic techniques and neuroimaging, and finding improved treatments and preventions.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Miller Fisher Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research aimed at discovering new ways to diagnose, treat, and, ultimately, cure neuropathies such as Miller Fisher syndrome.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Chronic Pain ?
Answer: Clinical investigators have tested chronic pain patients and found that they often have lower-than-normal levels of endorphins in their spinal fluid. Investigations of acupuncture include wiring the needles to stimulate nerve endings electrically (electroacupuncture), which some researchers believe activates endorphin systems. Other experiments with acupuncture have shown that there are higher levels of endorphins in cerebrospinal fluid following acupuncture. Investigators are studying the effect of stress on the experience of chronic pain. Chemists are synthesizing new analgesics and discovering painkilling virtues in drugs not normally prescribed for pain.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Adrenoleukodystrophy ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on genetic disorders such as ALD. The aim of this research is to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure these disorders. Studies are currently underway to identify new biomarkers of disease progression and to determine which patients will develop the childhood cerebral form of X-ALD. A recent case study in Europe demonstrated that the combination of gene therapy with bone marrow transplantation, using the patient's own bone marrow cells, may arrest disease progression in childhood cerebral X-ALD. A therapeutic trail in the United States is currently being discussed with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Hydromyelia ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research related to hydromyelia in its clinics and laboratories at The National Institutes of Health (NIH) and supports additional research through grants to major research institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure abnormalities of the spinal cord such as hydromyelia.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Joubert Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on the development of the nervous system and the cerebellum. This research is critical for increasing our understanding of Joubert syndrome, and for developing methods of treatment and prevention. NINDS, in conjunction with the NIH Office of Rare Disorders, sponsored a symposium on Joubert syndrome in 2002. Research priorities for the disorder were outlined at this meeting.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Infantile Spasms ?
Answer: The NINDS supports broad and varied programs of research on epilepsy and other seizure disorders. This research is aimed at discovering new ways to prevent, diagnose, and treat these disorders and, ultimately, to find cures for them. Hopefully, more effective and safer treatments, such as neuroprotective agents, will be developed to treat IS and West Syndrome.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Arachnoid Cysts ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research related to brain abnormalities and disorders of the nervous system such as arachnoid cysts in laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure neurological disorders such as arachnoid cysts.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Behcet's Disease ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on painful neurological disorders such as Behcet's disease. The National Human Genome Research Institute, another Institute of the National Institutes of Health, conducts research into the genomic basis of Behcet's disease. This research is aimed at discovering the causes of these disorders and finding ways to treat, prevent, and, ultimately, cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Pelizaeus-Merzbacher Disease ?
Answer: NINDS supports research on gene-linked disorders, including the leukodystrophies. The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders and to find ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Barth Syndrome ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge of the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS supports research on genetic disorders such as Barth syndrome, including basic research on mitochondrial dysfunction and investigations of other inborn errors of metabolism. Scientists have identified many of the genetic mutations that cause mitochondrial diseases and have created animal models which can be used to investigate potential treatments. Scientists hope to develop unique approaches to treating mitochondrial diseases through a better understanding of mitochondrial biology. Because people affected by mitochondrial disease often have a mixture of healthy and mutant mitochondria in their cells, effective therapy could involve getting the healthy mitochondria to take over for the diseased ones.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Pervasive Developmental Disorders ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports research on developmental disabilities, including PDD. Much of this research focuses on understanding the neurological basis of PDD and on developing techniques to diagnose, treat, prevent, and ultimately cure this and similar disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Krabbe Disease ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS is a component of the National Institutes of Health, the largest supporter of biomedical research in the world. Hamatopoietic stem cell transplantation -- using stem cells from umbilical cord blood or bone marrow -- has been shown to benefit some individuals when given early in the course of the disease. Scientists plan to test hematopoietic stem cell transplantation plus gene therapy to see if it dramatically increases life expectancy in a mouse model of the disease. Also in a mouse mode, NINDS-funded scientists are testing a combined treatment approach that uses a harmless virus to increase protein production, along with blood stem cell transplantation and small-molecule-based drugs, to reduce neuroinflammation, cell death, and nerve cell degeneration seen in Krabbe disease.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyneuropathy (CIDP) ?
Answer: The NINDS supports a broad program of research on disorders of the nervous system, including CIDP. Much of this research is aimed at increasing the understanding of these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Asperger Syndrome ?
Answer: Many of the Institutes at the NIH, including the NINDS, are sponsoring research to understand what causes AS and how it can be effectively treated. One study is using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to show how abnormalities in particular areas of the brain cause changes in brain function that result in the symptoms of AS and other ASDs.Other studies include aclinical trial testing the effectiveness of an anti-depressant in individuals with AS and HFA who exhibit high levels of obsessive/ritualistic behavior and a long-range study to collect and analyze DNA samples from a large group of children with AS and HFA and their families to identify genes and genetic interactions that are linked to AS and HFA.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Corticobasal Degeneration ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts research studies on degenerative disorders such as corticobasal degeneration. The goals of these studies are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders and to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Mucopolysaccharidoses ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease.The NINDS, along with other Institutes at the National Institutes of Health, supports the Lysosomal Disease network, a network of centers that address some of the major challenges in the diagnosis, management, and therapy of diseases, including the mucopolysaccharidoses. Centers are conducting longitudinal studies of the natural history and/or treatment of these disorders. Scientists are working to identify the genes associated with the mucopolysaccharidoses syndromes and plan to test new therapies in animal models and in humans. Other research funded by the NINDS has shown that viral-delivered gene therapy in animal models of the mucopolysaccharidoses can stop the buildup of storage materials in brain cells and improve learning and memory. Researchers are planning additional studies to understand how gene therapy prompts recovery of mental function in these animal models, but it may be years before such treatment is available to humans.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Klippel-Trenaunay Syndrome (KTS) ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on congenital disorders such as KTS with the goal of finding new means to treat and prevent them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Periventricular Leukomalacia ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts research on brain injuries such as PVL. Much of this research is aimed at finding ways to prevent and treat these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Brown-Sequard Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts a wide range of research on spinal cord disorders such as BSS. The goal of this research is to find ways to prevent, treat, and, ultimately, cure these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Neurological Sequelae Of Lupus ?
Answer: Investigators researching lupus seek to increase scientific understanding of the disorder and to find ways to treat, prevent, and ultimately, cure it. Several components of the National Institutes of Health support research on lupus.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Generalized Gangliosidoses ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS is a part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the largest supporter of biomedical research in the world. Scientists are studying the mechanisms by which the lipids accumulating in these disorders cause harm to the body. NINDS-funded research on the gangliosidoses also includes using variations of magnetic resonance imaging to develop a biomarker (a sign that may indicate risk of a disease and improve diagnosis) to effectively evaluate brain chemistry and disease progression, and expanding the use of virus-delivered gene therapy seen in an animal model of Tay-Sachs and Sandhoff diseases for use in humans.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Paroxysmal Hemicrania ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) support research related to paroxysmal hemicrania through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure headache disorders such as paroxysmal hemicrania.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Myopathy ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts an extensive research program on neuromuscular disorders such as the myopathies. Much of this research is aimed at increasing scientific understanding of these disorders, and finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Troyer Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on genetic disorders such as the hereditary spastic paraplegias. A gene for Troyer syndrome has been identified and others may be identified in the future. Understanding how these genes cause Troyer syndrome and the hereditary spastic paraplegias in general will lead to ways to prevent, treat, and cure these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Stroke ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts stroke research and clinical trials at its laboratories and clinics at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Currently, NINDS researchers are studying the mechanisms of stroke risk factors and the process of brain damage that results from stroke. Basic research has also focused on the genetics of stroke and stroke risk factors. Scientists are working to develop new and better ways to help the brain repair itself to restore important functions. New advances in imaging and rehabilitation have shown that the brain can compensate for function lost as a result of stroke.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Parkinson's Disease ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts PD research in laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Current research programs funded by the NINDS are using animal models to study how the disease progresses and to develop new drug therapies. Scientists looking for the cause of PD continue to search for possible environmental factors, such as toxins, that may trigger the disorder, and study genetic factors to determine how defective genes play a role. Other scientists are working to develop new protective drugs that can delay, prevent, or reverse the disease.
                
http://www.ninds.nih.gov/research/parkinsonsweb/index.htm

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Melkersson-Rosenthal Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on neurological disorders such as Melkersson-Rosenthal syndrome. Much of this research is aimed at increasing knowledge of these disorders and finding ways to treat, prevent, and ultimately cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Sjgren's Syndrome ?
Answer: The goals of research on disorders such as Sjgren's syndrome focus on increasing knowledge and understanding of the disorder, improving diagnostic techniques, testing interventions, and finding ways to treat, prevent, and cure the disease.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Hydranencephaly ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports a wide range of studies that explore the complex mechanisms of normal brain development. The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies provides the foundation for understanding how this process can go awry and, thus, offers hope for new means to treat and prevent developmental brain disorders, including hydranencephaly.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to PML in laboratories at the NIH, and support additional research through grants to majorresearch institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as PML.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Williams Syndrome ?
Answer: The National Institutes of Health (NIH), and the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), have funded many of the research studies exploring the genetic and neurobiological origins of WS. In the early 1990s, researchers located and identified the genetic mutation responsible for the disorder: the deletion of a small section of chromosome 7 that contains approximately 25 genes. NINDS continues to support WS researchers including, for example, groups that are attempting to link specific genes with the corresponding facial, cognitive, personality, and neurological characteristics of WS.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Hypotonia ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on conditions that can result from neurological disorders, such as hypotonia. Much of this research is aimed at learning more about these conditions and finding ways to prevent and treat them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Cushing's Syndrome ?
Answer: NINDS supports research on Cushing's syndrome aimed at finding new ways to diagnose, treat, and cure the disorder.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Moyamoya Disease ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS conducts and supports neurological research aimed at understanding why diseases develop in the brain, and that focus on finding ways to prevent, treat, or cure them.Anti-angiogenic therapy uses drugs that either activate and promote cell growth or directly block the growing blood vessel cells. NINDS-funded researchers are testing the anti-angiogenic drug Apo-Timop, part of a class of drugs called beta-blockers, which may lead to the development of new anti-angiogenics for people with vascular malformations. In other research, Other NINDS-funded research hopes to improve the understanding of this disease by determining whether infections injure blood vessels and thereby predispose children to stroke. It will also determine causes of recurrence, a crucial step toward developing ways to prevent repeated strokes in children.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Pituitary Tumors ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to brain tumors, including pituitary tumors, in their laboratories at the NIH and also support research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure pituitary tumors.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Foot Drop ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research related to the neurological conditions that cause foot drop in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure the kinds of neurological disorders that cause foot drop.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Central Cord Syndrome ?
Answer: Our understanding of central cord syndrome has increased greatly in recent decades as a result of research funded conducted by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS). Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure neurological disorders such as central cord syndrome.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Anencephaly ?
Answer: Research supported by the NINDS includes studies to understand how the brain and nervous system normally develop. These studies contribute to a greater understanding of neural tube disorders, such as anencephaly, and open promising new avenues to treat and prevent neurological birth defects.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Neurological Consequences of Cytomegalovirus Infection ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), conduct research related to CMV infection in laboratories at the NIH, and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent and treat CMV infection in people at risk of severe neurological consequences, especially a safe and effective CMV vaccine.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Muscular Dystrophy ?
Answer: The NINDS supports a broad program of research studies on MD. The goals of these studies are to understand MD and to develop techniques to diagnose, treat, prevent, and ultimately cure the disorder.
                
The NINDS is a member of the Muscular Dystrophy Coordinating Committee (MDCC). For additional information, please visit: http://www.ninds.nih.gov/about_ninds/groups/mdcc/

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Tourette Syndrome ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research in laboratories at the NIH and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Knowledge about TS comes from studies across a number of medical and scientific disciplines, including genetics, neuroimaging, neuropathology, clinical trials, epidemiology, neurophysiology, neuroimmunology, and descriptive/diagnostic clinical science. Findings from these studies will provide clues for more effective therapies.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Hypertonia ?
Answer: NINDS supports research on brain and spinal cord disorders that can cause hypertonia. The goals of this research are to learn more about how the nervous system adapts after injury or disease and to find ways to prevent and treat these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Friedreich's Ataxia ?
Answer: Friedreich's ataxia is caused by a mutation in the protein frataxin, which is involved in the function of mitochondriathe energy producing power plants of the cell. Frataxin controls important steps in mitochondrial iron metabolism and overall cell iron stability.NINDS-funded researchers are studying the metabolic functions of mitochondria in individuals with Friedreichs ataxia. Ongoing research is aimed at understanding the molecular basis for and mechanisms involved in the inactivation of the gene that provides instructions for frataxin, which could lead to potential ways to reverse the silencing and restore normal gene function.And researchers are using next-generation sequencing (which can quickly identify the structure of millions of small fragments of DNA at the same time) to identify novel genes in Friedreich's ataxia.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Wilson Disease ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct and/or support research related to Wilson disease. Growing knowledge of the copper transporting gene ATP7B, which in its mutated form causes WD, should lead to the design of better therapies for this disorder.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Cerebral Aneurysms ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions. The NINDS supports a broad range of basic and clinical research on intracranial aneurysms and other vascular lesions of the nervous system. The Familial Intracranial Aneurysm study seeks to identify possible genes that may increase the risk of development of aneurysms in blood vessels in the brain. Other research projects include genome-wide studies to identify genes or DNA sequences that may indicate families harboring one type of aneurysm may be at increased risk of another type; studies of chromosomes to identify aneurysm-related genes; and additional research on microsurgical clipping and endovascular surgery to treat various types of ruptured and unruptured aneurysms.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts CMT research in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and also supports CMT research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Ongoing research includes efforts to identify more of the mutant genes and proteins that cause the various disease subtypes. This research includes studies in the laboratory to discover the mechanisms of nerve degeneration and muscle atrophy, and clinical studies to find therapies to slow down or even reverse nerve degeneration and muscle atrophy.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Alternating Hemiplegia ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on paralytic disorders such as alternating hemiplegia, with the goals of learning more about these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat and, ultimately cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Meralgia Paresthetica ?
Answer: Within the NINDS research programs, meralgia paresthetica is addressed primarily through studies associated with pain research. NINDS vigorously pursues a research program seeking new treatments for pain and nerve damage with the ultimate goal of reversing these debilitating conditions.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Neurosyphilis ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke supports and conducts research on neurodegenerative disorders, such as neurosyphilis, in an effort to find ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Neuromyelitis Optica ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge of the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS is a component of the National Institutes of Health, the leading supporter of biomedical research in the world. NINDS researchers are working to better understand the process by which the immune system destroys or attacks the nerve insulating substance called myelin in autoijmune diseases or disorders. Other work focuses on strategies to repair demyelinated spinal cords, including approaches using cell transplantation. this research may lead to a grater understanding of the mechanisms responsible for damaging myelin and may ultimately provide a means to prevent and treat transverse myelitis An NINDS-funded study comparing clinical MRI and lumbar puncture of healthy individuals to those with symptoms of immune-related central nervous system damage hopes to identify processes or mechanisms to inhibit or minimize spinal tissue damage and enhance recovery mechanisms. Multiple studies are looking at ways to target different components of the immune system known to be involved in NMO spectrum disorders to allow more directly targeted treatment of this disease.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Tay-Sachs Disease ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS is a part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the leading supporter of biomedical research in the world. the NINDS and other NIH Institutes supports the Lysosomal Diseases Netowrk, which addresses some of the major challenges in the diagnosis, management, and therapy of rare diseases, including the lipid storage diseases. Additional research funded by the NINDS focuses on better understanding how neurological defects arise in lipid storage disorders and on the development of new treatments targeting disease mechanisms, including gene therapies, cell-based therapies, and pharmacological approaches. NINDS-funded research on the gangliosidoses includes using variations of magnetic resonance imaging to develop a biomarker (a sign that may indicate risk of a disease and improve diagnosis) to effectively evaluate brain biochemistry and disease progression. Other research is expanding the use of virus-delivered gene therapy seen in an animall model of Tay-Sachs disease for use in humans.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Dyssynergia Cerebellaris Myoclonica ?
Answer: The NINDS supports a broad range of research on neurodegenerative disorders such as Dyssynergia Cerebellaris Myoclonica. The goals of this research are to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure these kinds of disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Encephalopathy ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts research on brain diseases. Much of this research is aimed at characterizing the agents that cause these disorders, clarifying the mechanisms underlying them, and, ultimately, finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Sturge-Weber Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports a broad program of research to better understand congenital seizure disorders. This research is aimed at developing techniques to diagnose, treat, prevent, and ultimately cure disorders such as Sturge-Weber syndrome.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Kennedy's Disease ?
Answer: The NINDS supports a broad spectrum of research on motor neuron diseases, such as Kennedy's disease. Much of this research is aimed at increasing scientific understanding of these diseases and, ultimately, finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Neurofibromatosis ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. NINDS researchers are working to identify signaling pathways in the nervous system, with the hope of eventually developing drugs and techniques to help diagnose and treat NF. Understanding the natural history of tumors in NF and determining possible factors that may regulate their growth patterns is another aim of NIH researchers Ongoing research continues to discover additional genes that appear to play a role in NF-related tumor suppression or growth Continuing research on these genes and their proteins is beginning to reveal how this novel family of growth regulators controls how and where tumors form and grow Researchers also hope to develop new and more effective treatments for neurofibromatosis. Several agents have been tested or are under investigation for NF2, including the monoclonal antibody, bevacizumab, which improves hearing in some individuals with NF2.Because schwannomas are particularly hard to treat tumors, NINDS researchers are developing a new treatment option, which uses a virus to kill tumor cells. Additional NINDS-funded researchers are testing novel radiation and chemotherapy regimens for NF1-related malignant tumors of the peripheral nerves.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Aicardi-Goutieres Syndrome Disorder ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) support research related to AGS through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Current research is aimed at finding new methods for treating and ultimately preventing or curing AGS.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Pseudotumor Cerebri ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports research on disorders of the brain and nervous system, including pseudotumor cerebri. This research focuses primarily on increasing scientific understanding of these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Schilder's Disease ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts an extensive research program on demyelinating disorders such as Schilder's disease. Much of this research focuses on learning more about these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Tarlov Cysts ?
Answer: The NINDS, a component of the National Institutes of Health within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, vigorously pursues a research program seeking new treatments to reduce and prevent pain and nerve damage.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Multiple Sclerosis ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research in laboratories at the NIH and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Scientists continue their extensive efforts to create new and better therapies for MS. One of the most promising MS research areas involves naturally occurring antiviral proteins known as interferons. Beta interferon has been shown to reduce the number of exacerbations and may slow the progression of physical disability. When attacks do occur, they tend to be shorter and less severe. In addition, there are a number of treatments under investigation that may curtail attacks or improve function. Over a dozen clinical trials testing potential therapies are underway, and additional new treatments are being devised and tested in animal models.
                
In 2001, the National Academies/Institute of Medicine, a Federal technical and scientific advisory agency, prepared a strategic review of MS research. To read or download the National Academies/Institute of Medicine report, go to: "Multiple Sclerosis: Current Status and Strategies for the Future."

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Moebius Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports a broad range of research on neurogenetic disorders, including Moebius syndrome. The goals of these studies are to develop improved techniques to diagnose, treat, and eventually cure these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Thyrotoxic Myopathy ?
Answer: The NINDS supports a broad range of research on neuromuscular disorders such as thyrotoxic myopathy. Much of this research is aimed at learning more about these disorders and finding ways to prevent and treat them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Neuroacanthocytosis ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on disorders such as neuroacanthocytosis, aimed at increasing scientific understanding of the disorders and finding ways to prevent and treat them. The genetic mutations responsible for some types of neuroacanthocytosis have recently been identified. Researchers are examining the role of the basal ganglia in neuroacanthocytosis and hope to correlate the specific genetic abnormalities with the clinical features of the disease. Other research is aimed at identifying possible causes of sudden death related to heart muscle abnormalities, which are observed in some individuals with neuroacanthocytosis.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Sotos Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts a wide range of studies which focus on identifying and learning more about the genes involved in normal brain development. The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies provides the foundation for understanding how this process can go awry and, thus, may eventually give clues to understanding disorders such as Sotos syndrome.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Cerebro-Oculo-Facio-Skeletal Syndrome (COFS) ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on genetic disorders such as COFS. The goals of this research include finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Piriformis Syndrome ?
Answer: Within the NINDS research programs, piriformis syndrome is addressed primarily through studies associated with pain research. NINDS vigorously pursues a research program seeking new treatments for pain and nerve damage with the ultimate goal of reversing debilitating conditions such as piriformis syndrome.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Spinal Cord Infarction ?
Answer: NINDS conducts and supports research on disorders of the spinal cord such as spinal cord infarction, aimed at learning more about these disorders and finding ways to prevent and treat them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Repetitive Motion Disorders ?
Answer: Much of the on-going research on RMDs is aimed at prevention and rehabilitation. The National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS) funds research on RMDs.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Klippel Feil Syndrome ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge abuot the brain and nervous system, and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. Research supported by the NINDS includes studies to understand how the brain and nervous system normally develop and function and how they are affected by disease and trauma. These studies contribute to a greater understanding of birth defects such as Klippel-Feil Syndrome and open promising new avenues for treatment.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Carpal Tunnel Syndrome ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to conduct fundamental research on the brain and nervous system, and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. NINDS-funded scientists are studying the factors that lead to long-lasting nerve pain disorders, and how the affected nerves are related to symptoms of numbness, loss of function, and pain. Researchers also are examining biomechanical stresses that contribute to the nerve damage responsible for symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome in order to better understand, treat, and prevent it.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Opsoclonus Myoclonus ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts research on movement disorders such as opsoclonus myoclonus. These studies are aimed at increasing knowledge about these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Dysautonomia ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts research on dysautonomia. This research aims to discover ways to diagnose, treat, and, ultimately, prevent these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Metachromatic Leukodystrophy ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge of the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS is a part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the leading supporter of biomedical research in the world. Research funded by the NINDS focuses on better understanding how neurological defects arise in lipid storage disorders and on the development of new treatments targeting disease mechanisms, including gene therapies, cell-based therapies, and pharmacological approaches. NINDS-funded preclinical research aims to study the effectiveness and safety of virus-based delivery of the normal ARSA gene to promote gene expression throughout the central nervous system and overcome the mutation-caused deficiency. If successful, the project could lead to trials in humans. Other research hopes to study the use of patient-specific induced pluripotent stem cells (cells that are capable of becoming other types of cells) in correcting the gene deficiency in metachromatic leukodystrophy.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Atrial Fibrillation and Stroke ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is the leading Federal agency directing and funding research relevant to AF and stroke prevention. The NINDS conducts basic and clinical research in its laboratories and clinics at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and also supports additional research through grants to major research institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as AF that can increase the risk of stroke.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Migraine ?
Answer: Researchers believe that migraine is the result of fundamental neurological abnormalities caused by genetic mutations at work in the brain. New models are aiding scientists in studying the basic science involved in the biological cascade, genetic components and mechanisms of migraine. Understanding the causes of migraine as well as the events that effect them will give researchers the opportunity to develop and test drugs that could be more targeted to preventing or interrupting attacks entirely. Therapies currently being tested for their effectiveness in treating migraine include magnesium, coenzyme Q10, vitamin B12, riboflavin, fever-few, and butterbur. 
                
In 2010, a team of researchers found a common mutation in the gene TRESK which contains instructions for a certain potassium ion channel. Potassium channels are important for keeping a nerve cell at rest and mutations in them can lead to overactive cells that respond to much lower levels of pain. Large genetic analyses similar to the one used to identify TRESK will most likely lead to the identification of a number of other genes linked to migraine.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Aicardi Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts research on neurogenetic disorders such as Aicardi syndrome. The goals of this research are to locate and understand the genes involved and to develop techniques to diagnose, treat, prevent, and ultimately cure disorders such as Aicardi syndrome.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Refsum Disease ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) supports research related to Adult Refsum Disease through grants to major research institutions across the country. Research is focused on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure ARD and other peroxisomal disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Frontotemporal Dementia ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), conduct research related to FTD in laboratories at the NIH, and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Shaken Baby Syndrome ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), conduct research related to shaken baby syndrome in laboratories at the NIH and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to treat and heal medical conditions such as shaken baby syndrome.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker Disease ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts research on TSEs, including GSS. Much of this research is aimed at characterizing the agents that cause these disorders, clarifying the mechanisms underlying them, and, ultimately, finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Syringomyelia ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. NINDS investigators are studying how syrinxes first form, as well as the mechanisms of the disorders. NINDS investigators have found that the normal flow of cerebrospinal fluid that occurs with each heartbeat is obstructed in people with syringomyelia. Surgical procedures that relieve this obstruction usually result in the syrinx becoming much smaller in size. Studies are also underway to identify and better understand genetic factors that influence the development of Chiari I malformations and syringomyelia. Researchers hope to better understand the role of birth defects of the skull and brain in the development of hindbrain malformations that can lead to syringomyelia. Diagnostic technology is another area for continued research. 
                
NINDS scientists are examining individuals who either have syringomyelia or are at risk of developing the disorder. They are investigating the factors that influence its development, progression, and treatment by recording more than 5 years of symptoms, muscle strength, overall function, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan findings from individuals who receive standard treatment for syringomyelia. Study results may allow scientists to provide more accurate recommendations to future individuals with syringomyelia regarding optimal surgical or non-surgical treatments.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Dandy-Walker Syndrome ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system, and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS conducts and supports a wide range of studies that explore the complex mechanisms of normal brain development. Researchers are studying DNA samples from individuals with Dandy-Walker syndrome to identify genes involved with the syndrome, as well as to better understand its causes and improve diagnosis and treatment options. Other research indicates that mothers with diabetes and those with rubella (German measles) during pregnancy are more likely to have a child with Dandy-Walker syndrome.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Spina Bifida ?
Answer: The NINDS supports a broad range of research on neural tube defects such as SB aimed at finding ways to treat, prevent, and, ultimately, cure these disorders. Recent studies have shown that the addition of folic acid to the diet of women of child-bearing age may significantly reduce the incidence of neural tube defects. Therefore it is recommended that all women of child-bearing age consume 400 micrograms of folic acid daily.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Back Pain ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct pain research in laboratories at the NIH and also support pain research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Currently, researchers are examining the use of different drugs to effectively treat back pain, in particular, chronic pain that has lasted at least 6 months. Other studies are comparing different health care approaches to the management of acute low back pain (standard care versus chiropractic, acupuncture, or massage therapy). These studies are measuring symptom relief, restoration of function, and patient satisfaction. Other research is comparing standard surgical treatments to the most commonly used standard nonsurgical treatments to measure changes in health-related quality of life among patients suffering from spinal stenosis.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on neurological disorders such as neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Much of this research focuses on finding ways to prevent and treat the disorder.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Antiphospholipid Syndrome ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) support research on APS through grants to major medical institutions across the country.NINDS-funded research is looking at ways to reduce clotting and prevent stroke. Among other NIH-funded research efforts, scientists are examining the role of antiphospholipid antibodies in clotting and pregnancy loss, which is commonly seen in individuals with lupus. Another project hopes to identify potential inherited risk factors for the development of APS.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Kearns-Sayre Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on neuromuscular disorders such as KSS. The goals of this research are to increase understanding of these disorders, and to find ways to prevent, treat, and, ultimately, cure them. The most promising approach for treatment in the future will be to alter replication or destroy abnormal mitochondria.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Restless Legs Syndrome ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct and support RLS research in laboratories at the NIH and at major medical institutions across the country. The goal of this research is to increase scientific understanding of RLS, find improved methods of diagnosing and treating the syndrome, and discover ways to prevent it.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Infantile Refsum Disease ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research related to IRDin its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Research is focused on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as the PBDs.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Reye's Syndrome ?
Answer: Much of the research on RS focuses on answering fundamental questions about the disorder such as how problems in the body's metabolism may trigger the nervous system damage characteristic of RS and what role aspirin plays in this life-threatening disorder. The ultimate goal of this research is to improve scientific understanding, diagnosis and medical treatment of RS.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Cerebral Arteriosclerosis ?
Answer: The NINDS supports an extensive research program on stroke and conditions that can lead to stroke. Much of this research is aimed at finding ways to prevent and treat conditions such as cerebral arteriosclerosis.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Schizencephaly ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports a wide range of studies that explore the mechanisms of normal brain development. The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies provides the foundation for understanding how to prevent or treat developmental brain defects such as schizencephaly.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Inflammatory Myopathies ?
Answer: The National Institutes of Health (NIH), through the collaborative efforts of its National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS), and National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS), conducts and supports a wide range of research on neuromuscular disorders, including the inflammatory myopathies. The NINDS and NIAMS are funding DNA analyses using microarrays to characterize patterns of muscle gene expression among adult and juvenile individuals with distinct subtypes of inflammatory myopathies. Findings will be used to refine disease classification and provide clues to the pathology of these disorders. Other NIH-funded research is studying prior viral infection as a precursor to inflammatory myopathy. Other research hopes to determine whether the drug infliximab, which blocks a protein that is associated with harmful inflammation, is safe and effective in treating dermatomyositis and polymyositis.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Stiff-Person Syndrome ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research related to SPS in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. A study using the drug rituximab proved ineffective in treating individuals with the disorder. Current research is focused on understanding the cause of the disease and the role of the anti-GAD antibodies.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on genetic disorders such as HSP. More than 30 genes that are responsible for several forms of HSP have been identified, and many more will likely be identified in the future. These genes generally encode proteins that normally help maintain the function of axons in the spinal cord. Understanding how mutations of these genes cause HSP should lead to ways to prevent, treat, and cure HSP.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Leukodystrophy ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on genetic disorders, including the leukodystrophies. The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders, and to find ways to prevent, treat, and, ultimately, cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Canavan Disease ?
Answer: The gene for Canavan disease has been located. Many laboratories offer prenatal screening for this disorder to populations at risk. Scientists have developed animal models for this disease and are using the models to test potential therapeutic strategies. Three strategies are currently under investigation: gene transfer to the brain in order to replace the mutated gene for the enzyme; metabolic therapy to provide a crucial missing metabolite (acetate); and enzyme therapy where the enzyme aspartoacylase is engineered to be able to enter the brain and is injected in the the blood stream. Encouraging results have been obtained using these strategies.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Alexander Disease ?
Answer: Recent discoveries show that most individuals (approximately 90 percent) with Alexander disease have a mutation in the gene that makes glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). GFAP is a normal component of the brain, but it is unclear how the mutations in this genecauses the disease. In most cases mutations occur spontaneously are not inherited from parents.A small number of people thought to have Alexander disease do not have identifiable mutations in GFAP, which leads researchers to believe that there may be other genetic or perhaps even non-genetic causes of Alexander disease. Current research is aimed at understanding the mechanisms by which the mutations cause disease, developing better animal models for the disorder, and exploring potential strategies for treatment. At present, there is no exact animal model for the disease; however, mice have been engineered to produce the same mutant forms of GFAP found in individuals with Alexander disease. These mice form Rosenthal fibers and have a predisposition for seizures, but do not yet mimic all features of human disease (such as the leukodystrophies). One clinical study is underway to identify biomarkers of disease severity or progression in samples of blood or cerebrospinal fluid. Such biomarkers, if found, would be a major advantage for evaluating the response to any treatments that are developed in the future.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Narcolepsy ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research into narcolepsy and other sleep disorders in laboratories at the NIH and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. The NINDS continues to support investigations into the basic biology of sleep, including the brain mechanisms involved in generating and regulating sleep. Within the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, also a component of the NIH, the       National        Center   on Sleep Disorders Research (NCSDR) coordinates Federal government sleep research activities and shares information with private and nonprofit groups.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Neurological Complications of AIDS ?
Answer: Within the Federal government, the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), one part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), supports research on the neurological consequences of AIDS. The NINDS works closely with its sister agency, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), which has primary responsibility for research related to HIV and AIDS.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Tabes Dorsalis ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts research on neurodegenerative disorders, such as tabes dorsalis, in an effort to find ways to prevent, treat, and, ultimately, cure these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Herpes Zoster Oticus ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on shingles and shingles-related conditions. Current studies focus on the relationship between the persistence of neurotropic viruses and development of neurological diseases including herpes simplex and varicella-zoster viruses.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Hemicrania Continua ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) support research related to hemicrania continua through grants to medical research institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on understanding hemicrania continua in order to finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure the disorder.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Paroxysmal Choreoathetosis ?
Answer: NINDS supports and conducts research on movement disorders such as paroxysmal choreoathetosis. Much of this research is aimed at finding ways to prevent and treat these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Tropical Spastic Paraparesis ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to HAM/TSP in laboratories at the NIH, and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as HAM/TSP.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Alpers' Disease ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on gene-linked neurodegenerative disorders such as Alpers' disease. The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders, and to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Myasthenia Gravis ?
Answer: Scientists are evaluating new and improving current treatments for myasthenia gravis. Different drugs are being tested, either alone or in combination with existing drug therapies, to see if they are effective in treating the disorder. One study seeks to understand the molecular basis of synaptic transmission in the nervous system. Thymectomy is being studied in individuals who do not have thymoma, to assess long-term benefit the surgery may have over medical therapy alone. And investigators are examining the safety and efficacy of autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation to treat refractory and severe myasthenia gravis.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Spinal Muscular Atrophy ?
Answer: Between 2003 and 2012, the NINDS piloted the Spinal Muscular Atrophy Project to expedite therapeutics development for this hereditary neurodegenerative disease. The Project was designed to accelerate the research process by identifying drugs that increase the level of SMN protein in cultured cells, so that they could be used as potential leads for further drug discovery and clinical testing. Read more about the history of this pioneering effort and how it led to collaboration with several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Alzheimer's Disease ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) supports basic and translational research related to AD through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Current studies are investigating how the development of beta amyloid plaques damages neurons, and how abnormalities in tau proteins create the characteristic neurofibrillary tangles of AD. Other research is exploring the impact of risk factors associated with the development of AD, such as pre-existing problems with blood flow in the blood vessels of the brain. Most importantly, the NINDS supports a number of studies that are developing and testing new and novel therapies that can relieve the symptoms of AD and potentially lead to a cure.
                
On May 15, 2012 the Obama Administration announced the release of the National Alzheimers Plan. U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius reaffirmed our nations commitment to conquering Alzheimers disease and related dementias, with a specific goal of finding effective ways to prevent and treat the disease by 2025.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Incontinentia Pigmenti ?
Answer: Researchers have begun to use genetic linkage studies to map the location of genes associated with the neurocutaneous disorders. Research supported by the NINDS includes studies to understand how the brain and nervous system normally develop and function and how they are affected by genetic mutations. These studies contribute to a greater understanding of gene-linked disorders such as IP, and have the potential to open promising new avenues of treatment.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Whipple's Disease ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge of the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS supportsa broad range of research on disorders that affect the central nervous system. The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases also supports research on disorders such as Whipple's disease. Much of this research is aimed at learning more about these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat, and, ultimately, cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Landau-Kleffner Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports broad and varied programs of research on epilepsy and developmental disorders. This research is aimed at discovering new ways to prevent, diagnose, and treat epilepsy and developmental disorders and, ultimately, to find cures for them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Central Pain Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS vigorously pursues a research program seeking new treatments for chronic pain and nervous system damage. The goals of this research are to develop ways to more effectively treat and potentially reverse debilitating conditions such as central pain syndrome.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Complex Regional Pain Syndrome ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research relating to CRPS and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. NINDS-supported scientists are studying new approaches to treat CRPS and intervene more aggressively after traumatic injury to lower the chances of developing the disorder. Researchers hope to identify specific cellular and molecular changes in sensory neurons following peripheral nerve injury to better understand the processes that underlie neuroplasticity (the brains ability to reorganize or form new nerve connections and pathways following injury or death of nerve cells). Identifying these mechanisms could provide targets for new drug therapies that could improve recovery following regeneration. Other researchers hope to better understand how CRPS develops by studying immune system activation and peripheral nerve signaling using an animal model of the disorder.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Arteriovenous Malformation ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system, and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS has established an Arteriovenous Study Group to learn more about the natural causes of AVMs and to improve surgical treatment of these lesions. An NINDS study at Columbia University, A Randomized Trial of Unruptured Brain AVMs (ARUBA), showed that medical management alone is superior to medical management and interventional therapy (conventional surgery, endovascular procedures, and radiosurgery) for improving the long-term outcome of individuals with unruptured brain arteriovenous malformations. Data from a recently closed observational phase will show if the disparities continued over the additional five years of follow-up.
                
Among other NINDS-funded research, scientists are testing a class of drugs called beta-blockers to see if they may lead to the development of new treatments for people with vascular malformations. Other NINDS-funded investigators hope to develop biomarkers (signs that may indicate risk of a disease) for AVM that may improve risk assessment and aid in the choice of therapy that may provide maximize benefit with minimal risk to the individual. Additional NINDS-funded research hopes to determine molecular pathways fundamental to the formation of brain AVMs.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Ataxia Telangiectasia ?
Answer: NINDS-supported researchers discovered the gene responsible for A-T, known as ATM (ataxia-telangiectasia mutated) in 1995. This gene makes a protein that activates many (probably more than 700) other proteins that control cell cycle, DNA repair, and cell death. Without it, cells are unable to activate the cellular checkpoints that protect against the damage of ionizing radiation and other agents that can harm DNA. In addition to supporting basic research on A-T, NINDS also funds research aimed at A-T drug development, including development of animal models, gene and stem-cell based therapies, and high-throughput drug screens. The NINDS also leads a trans-NIH A-T Working Group whose members include NINDS, NHLBI, NIEHS, NCI, NEI, NIGMS, NHGRI, NIA, NIAID, NICHD, and ORD.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Klver-Bucy Syndrome ?
Answer: NINDS supports and conducts research on neurobehavioral disorders such as Klver-Bucy syndrome. Much of the research focuses on learning more about these disorders and finding ways to prevent and treat them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Niemann-Pick Disease ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), a part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), conducts and supports research about Niemann-Pick disease through research grants to research institutions across the country. Investigators at the NINDS have identified two different genes that, when defective, contribute to Niemann-Pick disease type C. NINDS scientists are studying the mechanisms by which lipids accumulating in these storage diseases causes harm to the body. Additional research studies hope to identify biomarkers (signs that may indicate risk of a disease and improve diagnosis) for the lipid storage disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports a broad program of basic and clinical research on epilepsy including Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. These studies are aimed at finding the causes of these disorders, improving the diagnosis, and developing new medications and other therapies.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Paresthesia ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on disorders of the brain, spinal cord, and peripheral nerves that can cause paresthesia. The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders and to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Myoclonus ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research relating to myoclonus in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Scientists are seeking to understand the underlying biochemical basis of involuntary movements and to find the most effective treatment for myoclonus and other movement disorders. Researchers may be able to develop drug treatments that target specific biochemical changes involved in myoclonus. By combining several of these drugs, scientists hope to achieve greater control of myoclonic symptoms.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Dermatomyositis ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research relating to dermatomyositis in laboratories at the NIH and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Currently funded research is exploring patterns of gene expression among the inflammatory myopathies, the role of viral infection as a precursor to the disorders, and the safety and efficacy of various treatment regimens.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Agnosia ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on disorders of the brain such as agnosia with the goal of finding ways to prevent or cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Rett Syndrome ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to Rett syndrome in laboratories at the NIH, and also support additional Rett syndrome research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. The discovery of the Rett syndrome gene in 1999 provides a basis for further genetic studies. Understanding the cause of this disorder is necessary for developing new therapies to manage specific symptoms, as well as for providing better methods of diagnosis.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Brachial Plexus Injuries ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports research on injuries to the nervous system such as brachial plexus injuries. Much of this research is aimed at finding ways to prevent and treat these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Dementia ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to dementia in laboratories at the NIH and also support additional dementia research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Current research focuses on many different aspects of dementia. This research promises to improve the lives of people affected by the dementias and may eventually lead to ways of preventing or curing these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Motor Neuron Diseases ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge of the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS is a component of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the leading supporter of biomedical research in the world. Researchers are testing whether different drugs, agents, or interventions are safe and effective in slowing the progression of motor neuron diseasess. NIH is also conducting clinical trials to study drugs to stimulate muscle growth in Kennedys disease and to suppress endogenous retroviruses in individuals with ALS. A large NIH-led collaborative study is investigating the genes and gene activity, proteins, and modifications of adult stem cell models from both healthy people and those with ALS,spinal muscular atrophy, and other neurodegenerative diseases to better understand the function of neurons and other support cells and identify candidate therapeutic compounds.
                

                
conducts research related to the MNDs in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as the MNDs.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Hydrocephalus ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports a wide range of fundamental studies that explore the complex mechanisms of normal brain development. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to protect, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as hydrocephalus.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Encephaloceles ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports a wide range of studies that explore the complex mechanisms of normal brain development. The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies provides the foundation for understanding how this process can go awry and offers hope for new means to treat and prevent congenital brain disorders including neural tube defects such as encephaloceles.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Apraxia ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on movement disorders and conditions such as apraxia. The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders, and to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Paraneoplastic Syndromes ?
Answer: Research on paraneoplastic syndromes is aimed at enhancing scientific understanding and evaluating new therapeutic interventions. Researchers seek to learn what causes the autoimmune response in these disorders. Studies are directed at developing tests that detect the presence of antibodies. Scientists also hope to develop animal models for these diseases, which may be used to determine effective treatment strategies.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Megalencephaly ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to megalencephaly in laboratories at the NIH and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research explores the complex mechanisms of normal brain development. The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies will provide a foundation for developing ways to prevent megalencephaly and the other cephalic disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Diabetic Neuropathy ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports research on diabetic neuropathy to increase understanding of the disorder and find ways to prevent and cure it. New medications are currently being examined to assess improvement or stabilization of neuropathic symptoms.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Wernicke-Korsakoff Syndrome ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS supports research on neurological disorders such as Wernicke's encephalopathy, Korsakoff's amnesic syndrome, and Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome, to expand our understanding of the functional changes of the diseases and ways to treat them..One areas of research is studying how exercise can improve cognitive functioning based on modulation of certain nerve cells in a rodent model of amnesia produced by by thiamine deficiency. The National Institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism also supports research on these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Cerebellar Degeneration ?
Answer: The NINDS funds research to find the genes involved in diseases that cause cerebellar degeneration. Discovering these genes, identifying their mutations, and understanding how the abnormal proteins they produce cause cerebellar degeneration may eventually help scientists find ways to prevent, treat, and even cure the diseases that involve cerebellar degeneration.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Parry-Romberg ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on neurological disorders such as Parry-Romberg syndrome with the goal of finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Myotonia Congenita ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research related to myotonia congenita and also supports additional research through grants to major research institutions across the country. Current research is exploring how, at the molecular level, the defective gene in myotonia congenita causes the specific symptoms of the disorder. Additional research is focused on developing animal models of the disorder to test potential treatments and therapies.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Congenital Myopathy ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to congenital myopathies in their laboratories at the NIH and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure the disorders that make up the congenital myopathies.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Ataxia ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts a broad range of basic and clinical research on cerebellar and spinocerebellar degeneration, including work aimed at finding the cause(s) of ataxias and ways to treat, cure, and, ultimately, prevent them. Scientists are optimistic that understanding the genetics of these disorders may lead to breakthroughs in treatment.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Septo-Optic Dysplasia ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts neurogenetic research which focuses on identifying and studying the genes involved in normal brain development. The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies provides the foundation for understanding how this process can go awry and, thus, may eventually give clues to understanding disorders such as SOD.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Coffin Lowry Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts research on genetic disorders, such as Coffin-Lowry syndrome, in an effort to find ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Lipoid Proteinosis ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), conduct research related to neurological diseases such as lipoid proteinosis in laboratories at the NIH, and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders, such as lipoid proteinosis.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Kleine-Levin Syndrome ?
Answer: NINDS supports a broad range of clinical and basic research on diseases causing sleep disorders in an effort to clarify the mechanisms of these conditions and to develop better treatments for them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Vasculitis Syndromes of the Central and Peripheral Nervous Systems ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge of the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. Several NINDS-funded investigators are studying blood vessel damage and cerebral blood flow as it relates to stroke. The NINDS also funds research on vascular cognitive impairment, which is an important contributor to aging-related cognitive decline and is the result of impaired performance of the brain's small blood vessels. Additionally, the NINDS and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research relating to vasculitis syndromes in laboratories at the NIH and also support vasculitis research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. The NINDS supports The Vasculitis Clinical Research Consortium (VCRC), a network of academic medical centers, patient support organizations, and clinical research resources dedicated to conducting clinical research and improving the care of individuals with various vasculitis disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Menkes Disease ?
Answer: Recent research sponsored by the NINDS developed a blood test that could be given to newborns at risk for Menkes disease based on a positive family history for the disorder or other indications. The test measures 4 different chemicals in the blood and, depending upon their levels, can accurately diagnose the presence of Menkes disease before symptoms appear. Study results showed higher survival rates for children given the earliest copper injection treatment and improved, if not normal, 2. Additional research is being performed by the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, in collaboration with the NINDS, that applies gene therapy approaches to Menkes disease.3
                

                
1. Kaler, SG. The neurology of STPAT copper transporter disease: emerging concepts and future trends. Nature Reviews Neurology, 2001:7:15-19..
                
2. Kaler SG, et al.Neonatal Diagnosis and Treatment of Menkes Disease. N Engl J Med 2008;358:605-14.
                
3. Donsante, A. et. al. ATPTA gene addition to the choroid plexus results in long-term rescue of the lethal copper transport defect in a Menkes disease mouse model. Molecular Therapy (in press as of August 2011).

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Brain and Spinal Tumors ?
Answer: Scientists continue to investigate ways to better understand, diagnose, and treat CNS tumors. Experimental treatment options may include new drugs, gene therapy, surgery , radiation, biologic modulators that enhance the body's overall immune system to recognize and fight cancer cells, and a combination of therapies. Of particular interest to scientists is the development of tailored therapeutics--involving a combination of targeted agents that use different molecules to reduce tumor gene activity and suppress uncontrolled growth by killing or reducing the production of tumor cells--to treat tumors based on their genetic makeup. Researchers continue to search for additional clinical biomarkers (molecules or other substances in the blood or tissue that can be used to diagnose or monitor a particular disorder) of CNS tumors. Other researchers are testing different drugs and molecules to see if they can modulate the normal activity of the blood-brain barrier and better target tumor cells and associated blood vessels. Also under investigation are ways to improve drug delivery to the tumor and to prevent the side-effects of cancer treatments.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Hypersomnia ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts research on sleep disorders such as hypersomnia. The goal of this research is to increase scientific understanding of the condition, find improved methods of diagnosing and treating it, and discover ways to prevent it.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Guillain-Barr Syndrome ?
Answer: Scientists are concentrating on finding new treatments and refining existing ones. Scientists are also looking at the workings of the immune system to find which cells are responsible for beginning and carrying out the attack on the nervous system. The fact that so many cases of Guillain-Barr begin after a viral or bacterial infection suggests that certain characteristics of some viruses and bacteria may activate the immune system inappropriately. Investigators are searching for those characteristics. Neurological scientists, immunologists, virologists, and pharmacologists are all working collaboratively to learn how to prevent this disorder and to make better therapies available when it strikes.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for CADASIL ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts stroke research and clinical trials at its laboratories and clinics at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Scientists are currently studying different drugs to reduce cognitive problems seen in patients with CADASIL. Researchers are also looking at ways to overcome an over-reaction to hormones that lead to high blood pressure and poor blood supply in patients with CADASIL.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Cerebral Hypoxia ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts studies aimed at understanding neurological conditions that can damage the brain, such as cerebral hypoxia. The goals of these studies are to find ways to prevent and treat these conditions.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Cerebral Atrophy ?
Answer: The NINDS funds research looking at many of the diseases and disorders that cause cerebral atrophy. Understanding the biological mechanisms that cause neurons to die in the brain will help researchers find ways to prevent, treat, and even cure the diseases that lead to cerebral atrophy.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Pinched Nerve ?
Answer: Within the NINDS research programs, pinched nerves are addressed primarily through studies associated with pain research. NINDS vigorously pursues a research program seeking new treatments for pain and nerve damage with the ultimate goal of reversing debilitating conditions such as pinched nerves.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Fabry Disease ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease.The NINDS supports research to find ways to treat and prevent lipid storage diseases such as Fabry disease. Researchers hope to identify biomarkers -- signs that may indicate risk of a disease and improve diagnosis -- for Fabry disease and other lipid storage diseases that will speed the development of novel therapeutics for these disorders. One NINDS-funded project is evaluating a rat model of Fabry disease, through which researchers hope to develop new proteins to increase the potency of enzyme replacement therapy.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Iniencephaly ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to iniencephaly in laboratories at the NIH and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research explores the complex mechanisms of neural tube development. The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies will provide a foundation for developing ways to prevent iniencephaly and the other neural tube defects.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Developmental Dyspraxia ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on developmental disorders, such as developmental dyspraxia, aimed at learning more about these disorders, and finding ways to prevent and treat them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Fibromuscular Dysplasia ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), a component of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, is the nations primary funding source for research on the brain and nervous system. The NINDS conducts research on stroke and vascular lesions of the nervous system and supports studies through grants to medical institutions across the country.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Headache ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research relating to headaches at its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. NINDS also supports and conducts studies to improve the diagnosis of headaches and to find ways to prevent them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Cerebellar Hypoplasia ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) supports research related to cerebellar hypoplasia and its associated disorders through grants to major research institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders that feature cerebellar hypoplasia.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Transverse Myelitis ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research related to transverse myelitis in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and also supports additional transverse myelitis research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Some studies focus on strategies to repair the spinal cord, including approaches using cell transplantation. The NINDS also funds researchers who are using animal models of spinal cord injury to study strategies for replacement or regeneration of spinal cord nerve cells. The knowledge gained from such research should lead to a greater knowledge of the mechanisms responsible for transverse myelitis and may ultimately provide a means to prevent and treat this disorder.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Tremor ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, a unit of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, is the nations leading federal funder of research on disorders of the brain and nervous system. The NINDS sponsors research on tremor both at its facilities at the NIH and through grants to medical centers. Scientists are evaluating the effectiveness of certain drugs and searching for genes that can cause certain forms of tremor.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Sandhoff Disease ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS is a part of the National Institutes of Health, the largest supporter of biomedical research in the world. The NINDS, along with other NIH Institutes, supports the Lysosomal Disease Network, a network of centers that addresses some of the major challenges in the diagnosis, management, and therapy of rare diseases, including the lipid storage diseases. Research funded by the NINDS focuses on better understanding of how neurological deficits rise in lipid storage diseases and on the development of new treatments targeting disease mechanisms, including gene therapies, cell-based therapies, and pharmacological approaches. NINDS funded research on the gangliosidoses includes variations of magnetic resonance imaging to develop a biomarker (a sign that may indicate risk of a disease and improve diagnosis) to effectively evaluate brain biochemistry and disease progression, and expanding the use of virus-delivered gene therapy seen in an animal model of Tay-Sachs and Sandhoff diseases for use in humans.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Tethered Spinal Cord Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports research on disorders of the spinal cord. The goals of this research are to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure these disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Progressive Supranuclear Palsy ?
Answer: Research is ongoing on Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. Better understanding of those common, related disorders will go a long way toward solving the problem of PSP, just as studying PSP may help shed light on Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Binswanger's Disease ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research related to BD in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure neurological disorders, such as BD.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Dravet Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports a broad program of basic and clinical research on all types of epilepsy, including Dravet syndrome. Study of the genetic defects responsible for Dravet syndrome and related disorders is expected to lead to the development of effective drug therapies.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Mucolipidoses ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge of the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. Investigators are conducting studies to determine the effects of ML genetic mutations in various animal models of the disease. Studying the disease mechanisms in these models may allow scientists to develop treatments for people with an ML disorder.Clinical trials include a natural history of individuals with ML IV, to better understand the disease and identify potential outcomes, and longitudinal studies to better understand disease progression, assess current therapies, and identify potential treatments.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Hereditary Neuropathies ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on neuromuscular disorders, such as hereditary neuropathies, aimed at learning more about these disorders and finding ways to prevent and treat them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Glossopharyngeal Neuralgia ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes at the National Institutes of Health conduct research related to GN and support additional research through grants to major research institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as GN.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Gaucher Disease ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), a part of the National Institutes of Health), is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS supports research to find ways to treat and prevent lipid storage disorders such as Gaucher disease. For example, researchers hope to identify biomarkers (signs that may indicate risk of a disease and improve diagnosis) for Gaucher disease and other lipid storage diseases; and identify genetic, biochemical, and clinical factors that are associated with disease severity in individuals with Gaucher disease.Additional research is looking at the increased buildup of the protein alpha-synuclein, which is seen in Gaucher disease, Parkinson's disease, and Lewy Body Dementia. Using different models of glucoserebrosidase deficiency, scientists hope to learn how this deficiency impairs the breakdown of lysosomal proteins, including the breakdown of alpha-synuclein.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Shingles ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge of the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS supports research on viral proteins and virus defense mechanisms in neurons to understand why the varicella-zoster virus establishes latency uniquely in neurons and not in other cell types. Other studies focus on how VZV travels along sensory nerve fibers, or axons, and its role in latency and viral reactivation. Scientists also hope to identify molecular mechanisms that regulate the expression of latent viral genes, which may lead to targeted therapy to prevent reactivation. Other studies hope to better understand cellular changes that lead to persistent pain.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Leigh's Disease ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and encourages a broad range of basic and clinical research on neurogenetic disorders such as Leigh's disease. The goal of this research is to understand what causes these disorders and then to apply these findings to new ways to diagnose, treat, and prevent them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Kuru ?
Answer: The NINDS funds research to better understand the genetic, molecular, and cellular mechanisms that underlie the TSE diseases. Findings from this research will lead to ways to diagnose, treat, prevent, and ultimately cure these diseases.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Neurodegeneration with Brain Iron Accumulation ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system, and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. NINDS-funded researchers are developing a mouse model of an NBIA disorder to gain insight into the causes of the disease and accelerate ongoing efforts to identify therapeutics to treat it..

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Pompe Disease ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) supports Pompe research through grants to major research institutions across the country. Research related to Pompe disease is conducted in one of the laboratories of the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS) at the National Institutes of Health. Much of Pompe-related research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure this disorder.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Dysgraphia ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) support dysgraphia research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to treat, and ultimately, prevent dysgraphia.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Orthostatic Hypotension ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on conditions such as neurogenic orthostatic hypotension aimed at increasing scientific understanding of the condition and finding ways to treat and prevent it.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Huntington's Disease ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system, and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. A major focus of research on HD is to understand the toxicity of mutant huntingin protein to brain cells and to develop potential drugs for counteracting it. Animal models of the disorder allow scientists to study mechanisms of the disease and to move forward with strategies most likely to work and least likely to cause harm for individuals. The HD gene discovery is allowing scientists to recruit individuals who carry the HD gene into clinical studies early  before they become ill. Researchers hope to understand how the defective gene affects various structures in the brain and the body's chemistry and metabolism. Since some of the clinical symptoms in neurodegenerative diseases may be caused by the ultimate malfunctioning of neuronal circuits rather than by the loss of individual cells, scientists are using cutting-edge methods such as optogenetics (where neurons are activated or silenced in the brains of living animals using light beams) to probe the cause and progression of such circuit defects in HD. Scientists are also using stem cells to study disease mechanisms and test potential therapeutic drugs.
                
The NINDS-funded PREDICT-HD study seeks to identify biomarkers (biological changes that can be used to predict, diagnose, or monitor a disease) for HD. One goal of PREDICT-HD is to determine if the progression of the disease correlates with changes in brain scans images, or with chemical changes in blood, urine, or cerebrospinal fluid. A large and related NINDS-supported study aims to identify additional genetic factors in people that influence the course of the disease. Since individuals with the same CAG expansions can differ widely in the age of disease onset and severity of symptoms, researchers are trying to identify variations in the genomes of individuals with HD that account for those differences in the hopes that they will point to new targets for disease intervention and therapy.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathies ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports research on TSEs. This research is aimed at determining how abnormal prion proteins lead to disease, at finding better tests for diagnosing CJD and other disorders, and ultimately at finding ways to treat TSEs.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Neurosarcoidosis ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) has joined with other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to form a trans-NIH working group to coordinate and fund research into the disease mechanisms of sarcoidosis, predisposing factors, genetic underpinnings, and the potential for clinical therapies. Grants are supporting research at major medical institutions across the country. The outcomes of this research will be better ways to diagnose, treat, and ultimately cure sarcoidosis and neurosarcardoisis.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Mitochondrial Myopathy ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports research on mitochondrial myopathies. The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders and to find ways to effectively treat, prevent, or potentially cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Lissencephaly ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports a wide range of studies that explore the complex systems of normal brain development, including neuronal migration. Recent studies have identified genes that are responsible for lissencephaly. The knowledge gained from these studies provides the foundation for developing treatments and preventive measures for neuronal migration disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Multiple System Atrophy with Orthostatic Hypotension ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on disorders of the autonomic nervous system, including multiple system atrophy with orthostatic hypotension. This research is aimed at developing techniques to diagnose, treat, and prevent these disorders. Currently there are ongoing treatment trials of drugs to treat MSA.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Transient Ischemic Attack ?
Answer: NINDS is the leading supporter of research on stroke and TIA in the U.S. and sponsors studies ranging from clinical trials to investigations of basic biological mechanisms as well as studies with animals.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Porencephaly ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to porencephaly in laboratories at the NIH and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research explores the complex mechanisms of normal brain development. The knowledge gained from these fundamental studies will provide a foundation for developing ways to prevent porecephaly and the other cephalic disorders.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Machado-Joseph Disease ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts MJD research in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and also supports MJD research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Ongoing research includes studies to better understand the genetic, molecular, and cellular mechanisms that underlie inherited neurodegenerative diseases such as MJD. Other research areas include the development of novel therapies to treat the symptoms of MJD, efforts to identify diagnostic markers and to improve current diagnostic procedures for the disease, and population studies to identify affected families.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Sleep Apnea ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to sleep apnea in laboratories at the NIH, and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure sleep disorders, such as sleep apnea.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Central Pontine Myelinolysis ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge of the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS is a component of the National Institutes of Health, the leading supporter of biomedical research in the world.
                
The NINDS conducts and supports research to better understand conditions that affect the protective myelin coating around nerve fibers and ways to prevent and treat the destruction of myelin. Scientists hope to develop drugs that can prevent brain cells from dying or help them produce new myelin. Research funded by the NIH's National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases aims to understand the biological mechanisms involved in water balance in the body.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Von Hippel-Lindau Disease (VHL) ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system, and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS pursues a vigorous program of research aimed at preventing and treating disorders that cause tumors in the brain and spinal cord such as VHL. A natural history study hopes to learn more about the growth of brain and spinal cord tumors, as well as cysts that develop in association with them in individuals with VHL. Researchers will examine how fast the tumors grow and try to determine which factors (such as puberty, pregnancy, menopause, or blood proteins) affect tumor growth. Based on laboratory findings, NINDS researchers are planning drug trials for individuals with VHL. For example, NNDS scientists hope to learn if a drug that fights other cancers might slow the growth of hemangioblastomas in some people with VHL. The NIH's National Cancer Institute conducts research aimed at treating kidney tumors in individuals with VHL, as well as studies to identify gene mutations in people who are at risk of developing the disease..

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Neuroaxonal dystrophy ?
Answer: Researchers continue to search for the defective gene that causes INAD in hopes of developing drugs that can stop the disease. The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research related to INAD in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as INAD.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Chiari Malformation ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on disorders of the brain and nervous system such as Chiari malformations. The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders and to find ways to prevent, treat, and, ultimately, cure them. Current NINDS-funded research includes studies to better understand the genetic factors responsible for the malformation, and factors that influence the development, progression, and relief of symptoms among people with syringomyelia, including those with Chiari I malformations.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Neurotoxicity ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on disorders of the brain and nervous system such as neurotoxicity, aimed at learning more about these disorders and finding ways to prevent and treat them. Scientists are investigating the role occupational or environmental toxicants have on progressive neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, multiple sclerosis, and dementia. Also being studied are the mechanisms that trigger neuroimmune responses in the central nervous system and the possibility that some brain disorders in children may occur when environmental triggers interact with genes.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Congenital Myasthenia ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) support research related to congenital myasthenia through grants to major research institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat and ultimately cure disorders such as congenital myasthenia.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Attention Deficit-Hyperactivity Disorder ?
Answer: Several components of the NIH support research on developmental disorders such as ADHD. Research programs of the NINDS, the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), and the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) seek to address unanswered questions about the causes of ADHD, as well as to improve diagnosis and treatment.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Essential Tremor ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, a unit of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, is the nation's leading federal funder of research on disorders of the brain and nervous system. The NINDS sponsors research on tremor both at its facilities at the NIH and through grants to medical centers.
                
Scientists at the NINDS are evaluating the effectiveness of 1-octanol, a substance similar to alcohol but less intoxicating, for treating essential tremor. Results of two previous NIH studies have shown this agent to be promising as a potential new treatment.
                
Scientists are also studying the effectiveness of botulinum toxin as a treatment for a variety of involuntary movement disorders, including essential tremor of the hand.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Epilepsy ?
Answer: Scientists are studying the underlying causes of the epilepsies in children, adults, and the elderly, as well as seizures that occur following brain trauma, stroke, and brain tumors. Ongoing research is focused on developing new model systems that can be used to more quickly screen potential new treatments for the epilepsies. The identification of genes or other genetic information that may influence or cause the epilepsies may allow doctors to prevent the disorders or to predict which treatments will be most beneficial to individuals with specific types of epilepsy. Scientists also continue to study how neurotransmitters interact with brain cells to control nerve firing and how non-neuronal cells in the brain contribute to seizures. Researchers funded by the National Institutes of Health have developed a flexible brain implant that could one day be used to treat seizures. Scientists are continually improving MRI and other brain scans that may assist in diagnosing the epilepsies and identify the source, or focus, of the seizures in the brain. Other areas of study include prevention of seizures and the role of inflammation in epilepsy. Patients may enter trials of experimental drugs and surgical interventions.
                
More about epilepsy research

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Zellweger Syndrome ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), conduct research exploring the molecular and genetic basis of Zellweger syndrome and the other PBDs, and also support additional research through grants to major research institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as Zellweger syndrome.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Coma ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to coma in their laboratories at the NIH and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent and treat coma.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Acute Disseminated Encephalomyelitis ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to ADEM in laboratories at the NIH, and also support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure demyelinating disorders such as ADEM.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Myotonia ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke supports and conducts an extensive research program on neuromuscular disorders. The goals of this research are to learn more about these disorders and to find ways to treat, prevent, and cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease ?
Answer: The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge about the brain and nervous system, and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The leading scientific theory at this time maintains that CJD is caused by a type of protein called a prion. The harmless and the infectious forms of the prion protein are nearly identical, but the infectious form takes a different folded shape than the normal protein. Researchers are trying to discover factors that influence prion infectivity and how the disorder damages the brain. Using rodent models of the disease and brain tissue from autopsies, researchers are also trying to develop improved diagnostic tests for CJD and to learn what changes ultimately kill the neurons so that effective treatments can be developed.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Chorea ?
Answer: The NINDS supports research on movement disorders such as chorea. The goals of this research are to increase understanding of these disorders and to find ways to prevent and treat them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Ohtahara Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS conducts and supports an extensive research program on seizures and seizure-related disorders. Much of this research is aimed at increasing scientific understanding of these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat, and potentially cure them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Postural Tachycardia Syndrome ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other Institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to POTS and support additional research through grants to major research institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure disorders such as POTS. NINDS-funded researchers are investigating if low levels of the hormone aldosterone contribute to low blood volume in individuals with POTS, and if high levels of angiotensin II, a peptide that helps regulate blood volume, leads to decreased adrenal sensitivity. Other NINDS-funded research is investigating the hypothesis that POTS is a syndrome of different subtypes, with different underlying mechanisms. Additionally, the NINDS funds the Autonomic Rare Diseases Consortium to further understand disorders such as orthostatic hypotension and hopefully alter the course of disease.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Rasmussen's Encephalitis ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts research related to Rasmussens encephalitis in its laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and also supports additional research through grants to major research institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure progressive neurological disorders, such as Rasmussens encephalitis.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Sydenham Chorea ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to SD in laboratories at the NIH, and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Currently, researchers are studying how the interplay of genetic, developmental, and environmental factors could determine a childs vulnerability to SD after a GABHS infection. Other researchers are exploring whether children whose symptoms either begin or get worse following a GABHS infection share a common set of abnormal biomolecular pathways responsible for their similar clinical symptoms.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Fahr's Syndrome ?
Answer: The NINDS supports and conducts research on neurogenetic disorders such as Fahr's Syndrome. The goals of this research are to locate and understand the actions of the genes involved in this disorder. Finding these genes could lead to effective ways to treat and prevent Fahr's Syndrome.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for National Hormone and Pituitary Program (NHPP): Information for People Treated with Pituitary Human Growth Hormone (Comprehensive Report) ?
Answer: Although CJD is a rare disorder, some of the world's leading researchers are working hard to learn more about this disease.
                
About 10 percent of the people who get CJD have the inherited type. Some people have gotten CJD from medical procedures such as pituitary hGH injections, tissue grafts, or corneal transplants. Scientists don't fully understand what causes CJD. Evidence suggests that a unique infectious agent called a prion [PREE-on] may be the cause. A prion is an unusual infectious agent because it contains no genetic material. It is a protein that takes on different forms. In its normal, harmless form, the protein is curled into a spiral. In its infectious form, the protein folds into an abnormal shape. Somehow, these abnormal proteins change the shape of normal proteins. This change begins a serious chain reaction that results in brain problems.
                
People with inherited CJD have an abnormal gene that leads to changes in their prion protein. This gene makes the protein likely to assume the abnormal shape. Exposure to the abnormal form of the protein can also occur through injection of contaminated pituitary hGH, tissue grafts, and corneal transplants and through exposures to infected brain tissue.
                
If CJD results from a defect in protein folding, it may be possible to identify drugs that can help the prion protein assume its proper shape. Such drugs would slow or stop the progress of the disease. Treatments like these are being studied by researchers. Researchers in both Europe and the United States are also trying to develop a test that will identify CJD before symptoms appear.
                
More information and medical journal articles about CJD and growth hormone therapy can be found on the National Endocrine and Metabolic Diseases Information Service web page Human Growth Hormone and Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease Resource List.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Ovarian Epithelial, Fallopian Tube, and Primary Peritoneal Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Radiation therapy     Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. Some women receive a treatment called intraperitoneal radiation therapy, in which radioactive liquid is put directly in the abdomen through a catheter. Intraperitoneal radiation therapy is being studied to treat advanced ovarian cancer.       Immunotherapy     Immunotherapy is a treatment that uses the patients immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the bodys natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biotherapy or immunotherapy.     Vaccine therapy uses a substance to stimulate the immune system to destroy a tumor. Vaccine therapy is being studied to treat advanced ovarian cancer.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Hypopharyngeal Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Brain Stem Glioma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                 Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Nasopharyngeal Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Central Nervous System Germ Cell Tumors ?
Answer: Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with childhood central nervous system germ cell tumor. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
            					
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.    Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Current Clinical Trials section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from the NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy     CAR T-cell therapy is a type of immunotherapy that changes the patient's T cells (a type of immune system cell) so they will attack certain proteins on the surface of cancer cells. T cells are taken from the patient and special receptors are added to their surface in the laboratory. The changed cells are called chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells. The CAR T cells are grown in the laboratory and given to the patient by infusion. The CAR T cells multiply in the patient's blood and attack cancer cells. CAR T-cell therapy is being studied in the treatment of childhood ALL that has relapsed (come back) a second time.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Colon Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma ?
Answer: Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
				                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
				                
				                
				                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
				                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Hodgkin Lymphoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Proton beam radiation therapy     Proton-beam therapy is a type of high-energy, external radiation therapy that uses streams of protons (small, positively-charged particles of matter) to make radiation. This type of radiation therapy may help lessen the damage to healthy tissue near the tumor.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Skin Cancer ?
Answer: Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.
                    Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to lower the risk of developing certain types of cancer. Some cancer prevention trials are conducted with healthy people who have not had cancer but who have an increased risk for cancer. Other prevention trials are conducted with people who have had cancer and are trying to prevent another cancer of the same type or to lower their chance of developing a new type of cancer. Other trials are done with healthy volunteers who are not known to have any risk factors for cancer.   The purpose of some cancer prevention clinical trials is to find out whether actions people take can prevent cancer. These may include eating fruits and vegetables, exercising, quitting smoking, or taking certain medicines, vitamins, minerals, or food supplements.
                
                
                    New ways to prevent skin cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                    Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about clinical trials can be found in the Clinical Trials section of the NCI Web site. Check NCI's list of cancer clinical trials for nonmelanoma skin cancer prevention trials and melanoma prevention trials that are now accepting patients.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, and Primary Peritoneal Cancer ?
Answer: Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.
                    Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to lower the risk of developing certain types of cancer. Some cancer prevention trials are conducted with healthy people who have not had cancer but who have an increased risk for cancer. Other prevention trials are conducted with people who have had cancer and are trying to prevent another cancer of the same type or to lower their chance of developing a new type of cancer. Other trials are done with healthy volunteers who are not known to have any risk factors for cancer.   The purpose of some cancer prevention clinical trials is to find out whether actions people take can prevent cancer. These may include eating fruits and vegetables, exercising, quitting smoking, or taking certain medicines, vitamins, minerals, or food supplements.
                
                
                    New ways to prevent ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                    Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about clinical trials can be found in the Clinical Trials section of the NCI website. Check NCI's list of cancer clinical trials for ovarian cancer prevention trials that are now accepting patients.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors (Islet Cell Tumors) ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options for Childhood LCH and the Treatment Options for Adult LCH sections for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's clinical trials database.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Laryngeal Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI Web site.     Chemoprevention     Chemoprevention is the use of drugs, vitamins, or other substances to reduce the risk of developing cancer or to reduce the risk cancer will recur (come back). The drug isotretinoin is being studied to prevent the development of a second cancer in patients who have had cancer of the head or neck.        Radiosensitizers     Radiosensitizers are drugs that make tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy. Combining radiation therapy with radiosensitizers may kill more tumor cells.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Liver (Hepatocellular) Cancer ?
Answer: Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.
                    Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to lower the risk of developing certain types of cancer. Some cancer prevention trials are conducted with healthy people who have not had cancer but who have an increased risk for cancer. Other prevention trials are conducted with people who have had cancer and are trying to prevent another cancer of the same type or to lower their chance of developing a new type of cancer. Other trials are done with healthy volunteers who are not known to have any risk factors for cancer.    The purpose of some cancer prevention clinical trials is to find out whether actions people take can prevent cancer. These may include eating fruits and vegetables, exercising, quitting smoking, or taking certain medicines, vitamins, minerals, or food supplements.
                
                
                    New ways to prevent liver cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                    Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about clinical trials can be found in the Clinical Trials section of the NCI website. Check NCI's list of cancer clinical trials for liver cancer prevention trials that are now accepting patients.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Gastrointestinal Carcinoid Tumors ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Targeted therapy      Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to identify and attack specific cancer cells without harming normal cells. Several types of targeted therapy are being studied in the treatment of GI carcinoid tumors.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Neuroblastoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Immunotherapy     Immunotherapy is a treatment that uses the patients immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the bodys natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biotherapy or biological therapy.     Vaccine therapy uses a substance to stimulate the immune system to destroy a tumor. Vaccine therapy is being studied to treat neuroblastoma that has come back after treatment.       Other drug therapy     Lenalidomide is a type of angiogenesis inhibitor. It prevents the growth of new blood vessels that are needed by a tumor to grow.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Extracranial Germ Cell Tumors ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant is a way of giving high doses of chemotherapy and replacing blood -forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the body's blood cells.       Radiation therapy     Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:            -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer.     -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type of cancer and whether it has come back. External radiation therapy is being studied for the treatment of childhood extracranial germ cell tumors that have come back.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Small Cell Lung Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Retinoblastoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Skin Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Treatment for skin cancer may cause side effects.
                    For information about side effects caused by treatment for cancer, see our Side Effects page.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Salivary Gland Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Radiosensitizers     Radiosensitizers are drugs that make tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy. Combining radiation therapy with radiosensitizers may kill more tumor cells.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Urethral Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Parathyroid Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Colorectal Cancer ?
Answer: Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.
                    Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to lower the risk of developing certain types of cancer. Some cancer prevention trials are conducted with healthy people who have not had cancer but who have an increased risk for cancer. Other prevention trials are conducted with people who have had cancer and are trying to prevent another cancer of the same type or to lower their chance of developing a new type of cancer. Other trials are done with healthy volunteers who are not known to have any risk factors for cancer.     The purpose of some cancer prevention clinical trials is to find out whether actions people take can prevent cancer. These may include exercising more or quitting smoking or taking certain medicines, vitamins, minerals, or food supplements.
                
                
                    New ways to prevent colorectal cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                    Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about clinical trials can be found in the Clinical Trials section of the NCI website. Check NCI's list of cancer clinical trials for colon cancer prevention trials or rectal cancer prevention trials that are now accepting patients.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Ewing Sarcoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy     CAR T-cell therapy is a type of immunotherapy that changes the patient's T cells (a type of immune system cell) so they will attack certain proteins on the surface of cancer cells. T cells are taken from the patient and special receptors are added to their surface in the laboratory. The changed cells are called chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells. The CAR T cells are grown in the laboratory and given to the patient by infusion. The CAR T cells multiply in the patient's blood and attack cancer cells. CAR T-cell therapy is being studied in the treatment of Ewing sarcoma that has recurred.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Kaposi Sarcoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to identify and attack specific cancer cells without harming normal cells. Monoclonal antibody therapy and tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are types of targeted therapy being studied in the treatment of Kaposi sarcoma.    Monoclonal antibody therapy is a cancer treatment that uses antibodies made in the laboratory from a single type of immune system cell. These antibodies can identify substances on cancer cells or normal substances that may help cancer cells grow. The antibodies attach to the substances and kill the cancer cells, block their growth, or keep them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies are given by infusion. These may be used alone or to carry drugs, toxins, or radioactive material directly to cancer cells.      Bevacizumab is a monoclonal antibody that is being studied in the treatment of Kaposi sarcoma.    TKIs are targeted therapy drugs that block signals needed for tumors to grow.      Imatinib mesylate is a TKI being studied in the treatment of Kaposi sarcoma.
                              
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Adult Primary Liver Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Ependymoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                  
                 
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Oropharyngeal Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Craniopharyngioma ?
Answer: Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the medical research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way diseases will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.   Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with childhood craniopharyngioma. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients who have not improved. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop a disease from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's clinical trials database.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI Web site.     Fulguration     Fulguration is a surgical procedure that destroys tissue using an electric current. A tool with a small wire loop on the end is used to remove the cancer or to burn away the tumor with electricity.       Segmental resection of the renal pelvis    This is a surgical procedure to remove localized cancer from the renal pelvis without removing the entire kidney. Segmental resection may be done to save kidney function when the other kidney is damaged or has already been removed.        Laser surgery    A laser beam (narrow beam of intense light) is used as a knife to remove the cancer. A laser beam can also be used to kill the cancer cells. This procedure may also be called or laser fulguration.       Regional chemotherapy and regional biologic therapy     Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping the cells from dividing. Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patient's immune system to fight cancer; substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the body's natural defenses against cancer. Regional treatment means the anticancer drugs or biologic substances are placed directly into an organ or a body cavity such as the abdomen, so the drugs will affect cancer cells in that area. Clinical trials are studying chemotherapy or biologic therapy using drugs placed directly into the renal pelvis or the ureter.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Vascular Tumors ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way disease will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose tumors have not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop tumors from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Vulvar Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Rectal Cancer ?
Answer: Other types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Prostate Cancer ?
Answer: Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.
                    Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to lower the risk of developing certain types of cancer. Some cancer prevention trials are conducted with healthy people who have not had cancer but who have an increased risk for cancer. Other prevention trials are conducted with people who have had cancer and are trying to prevent another cancer of the same type or to lower their chance of developing a new type of cancer. Other trials are done with healthy volunteers who are not known to have any risk factors for cancer.    The purpose of some cancer prevention clinical trials is to find out whether actions people take can prevent cancer. These may include eating fruits and vegetables, exercising, quitting smoking, or taking certain medicines, vitamins, minerals, or food supplements.
                
                
                    New ways to prevent prostate cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                    Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about clinical trials can be found in the Clinical Trials section of the NCI website. Check NCI's list of cancer clinical trials for prostate cancer prevention trials that are accepting patients.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Extragonadal Germ Cell Tumors ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant is a method of giving high doses of chemotherapy and replacing blood -forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the body's blood cells.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia and Other Myeloid Malignancies ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Biologic therapy     Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patients immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the bodys natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biotherapy or immunotherapy.     Natural killer (NK) cells are a type of biologic therapy. NK cells are white blood cells that can kill tumor cells. These may be taken from a donor and given to the patient by infusion to help kill leukemia cells.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Gallbladder Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Radiation sensitizers    Clinical trials are studying ways to improve the effect of radiation therapy on tumor cells, including the following:            -  Hyperthermia therapy: A treatment in which body tissue is exposed to high temperatures to damage and kill cancer cells or to make cancer cells more sensitive to the effects of radiation therapy and certain anticancer drugs.     -  Radiosensitizers: Drugs that make tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy. Giving radiation therapy together with radiosensitizers may kill more tumor cells.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Central Nervous System Atypical Teratoid/Rhabdoid Tumor ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to attack specific cancer cells. Targeted therapies usually cause less harm to normal cells than chemotherapy or radiation therapy do. Targeted therapy is being studied in the treatment of recurrent childhood central nervous system atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Merkel Cell Carcinoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Melanoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website
                
                
                    Treatment for melanoma may cause side effects.
                    For information about side effects caused by treatment for cancer, see our Side Effects page.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Liver Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to attack specific cancer cells. Targeted therapies usually cause less harm to normal cells than chemotherapy or radiation therapy do. Targeted therapy is being studied for the treatment of undifferentiated embryonal sarcoma of the liver and liver cancer that has come back.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Treatment Options in Clinical Trials
                    Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with childhood liver cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Endometrial Cancer ?
Answer: Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.
                    Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to lower the risk of developing certain types of cancer. Some cancer prevention trials are conducted with healthy people who have not had cancer but who have an increased risk for cancer. Other prevention trials are conducted with people who have had cancer and are trying to prevent another cancer of the same type or to lower their chance of developing a new type of cancer. Other trials are done with healthy volunteers who are not known to have any risk factors for cancer.    The purpose of some cancer prevention clinical trials is to find out whether actions people take can prevent cancer. These may include eating fruits and vegetables, exercising, quitting smoking, or taking certain medicines, vitamins, minerals, or food supplements.
                
                
                    New ways to prevent endometrial cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                    Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about clinical trials can be found in the Clinical Trials section of the NCI website. Check NCI's list of cancer clinical trials for endometrial cancer prevention trials that are now accepting patients.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Breast Cancer ?
Answer: Other screening tests are being studied in clinical trials.
                    Thermography     Thermography is a procedure in which a special camera that senses heat is used to record the temperature of the skin that covers the breasts. A computer makes a map of the breast showing the changes in temperature. Tumors can cause temperature changes that may show up on the thermogram.     There have been no clinical trials of thermography to find out how well it detects breast cancer or if having the procedure decreases the risk of dying from breast cancer.       Tissue sampling    Breast tissue sampling is taking cells from breast tissue to check under a microscope. Abnormal cells in breast fluid have been linked to an increased risk of breast cancer in some studies. Scientists are studying whether breast tissue sampling can be used to find breast cancer at an early stage or predict the risk of developing breast cancer. Three ways of taking tissue samples are being studied:            -  Fine-needle aspiration: A thin needle is inserted into the breast tissue around the areola (darkened area around the nipple) to take out a sample of cells and fluid.     - Nipple aspiration: The use of gentle suction to collect fluid through the nipple. This is done with a device similar to the breast pumps used by women who are breast-feeding.     -  Ductal lavage: A hair-size catheter (tube) is inserted into the nipple and a small amount of salt water is released into the duct. The water picks up breast cells and is removed.               Screening clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about ongoing clinical trials is available from the NCI website.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Central Nervous System Embryonal Tumors ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Gestational Trophoblastic Disease ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about ongoing clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Anal Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Radiosensitizers     Radiosensitizers are drugs that make tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy. Combining radiation therapy with radiosensitizers may kill more tumor cells.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Renal Cell Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Chemotherapy     Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping the cells from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated.       Hyperfractionated radiation therapy     Hyperfractionated radiation therapy is radiation treatment in which the total dose of radiation is divided into small doses and the treatments are given more than once a day.        Hyperthermia therapy     Hyperthermia therapy is a treatment in which body tissue is heated above normal temperature to damage and kill cancer cells or to make cancer cells more sensitive to the effects of radiation and certain anticancer drugs.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Breast Cancer ?
Answer: Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.
                    Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to lower the risk of developing certain types of cancer. Some cancer prevention trials are conducted with healthy people who have not had cancer but who have an increased risk for cancer. Other prevention trials are conducted with people who have had cancer and are trying to prevent another cancer of the same type or to lower their chance of developing a new type of cancer. Other trials are done with healthy volunteers who are not known to have any risk factors for cancer.   The purpose of some cancer prevention clinical trials is to find out whether actions people take can prevent cancer. These may include exercising more or quitting smoking or taking certain medicines, vitamins, minerals, or food supplements.
                
                
                    New ways to prevent breast cancer are being studied in clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Breast Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant is a way of giving high doses of chemotherapy and replacing blood -forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the bodys blood cells.    Studies have shown that high-dose chemotherapy followed by stem cell transplant does not work better than standard chemotherapy in the treatment of breast cancer. Doctors have decided that, for now, high-dose chemotherapy should be tested only in clinical trials. Before taking part in such a trial, women should talk with their doctors about the serious side effects, including death, that may be caused by high-dose chemotherapy.
                
                
                    Treatment for breast cancer may cause side effects.
                    For information about side effects that begin during treatment for cancer, see our Side Effects page.   Some treatments for breast cancer may cause side effects that continue or appear months or years after treatment has ended. These are called late effects.   Late effects of radiation therapy are not common, but may include:         -  Inflammation of the lung after radiation therapy to the breast, especially when chemotherapy is given at the same time.     - Arm lymphedema, especially when radiation therapy is given after lymph node dissection.     - In women younger than 45 years who receive radiation therapy to the chest wall after mastectomy, there may be a higher risk of developing breast cancer in the other breast.        Late effects of chemotherapy depend on the drugs used, but may include:         -  Heart failure.    -  Blood clots.    -  Premature menopause.    -  Second cancer, such as leukemia.        Late effects of targeted therapy with trastuzumab, lapatinib, or pertuzumab may include:         - Heart problems such as heart failure.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Uterine Sarcoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Metastatic Squamous Neck Cancer with Occult Primary ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Chemotherapy     Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy).        Hyperfractionated radiation therapy     Hyperfractionated radiation therapy is a type of external radiation treatment in which a smaller than usual total daily dose of radiation is divided into two doses and the treatments are given twice a day. Hyperfractionated radiation therapy is given over the same period of time (days or weeks) as standard radiation therapy.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Endometrial Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Soft Tissue Sarcoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Gene therapy     Gene therapy is being studied for childhood synovial sarcoma that has recurred, spread, or cannot be removed by surgery. Some of the patient's T cells (a type of white blood cell) are removed and the genes in the cells are changed in a laboratory (genetically engineered) so that they will attack specific cancer cells. They are then given back to the patient by infusion.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant is a way of giving high doses of chemotherapy and replacing blood -forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the body's blood cells.       Immunotherapy     Immunotherapy is a treatment that uses the patients immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the bodys natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biologic therapy or biotherapy.    There are different types of immunotherapy:            -  Immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy uses the body's immune system to kill cancer cells. Two types of immune checkpoint inhibitors are being studied in the treatment of childhood rhabdomyosarcoma that has come back after treatment:                  -  CTLA-4 is a protein on the surface of T cells that helps keep the bodys immune responses in check. When CTLA-4 attaches to another protein called B7 on a cancer cell, it stops the T cell from killing the cancer cell. CTLA-4 inhibitors attach to CTLA-4 and allow the T cells to kill cancer cells. Ipilimumab is a type of CTLA-4 inhibitor.       -  PD-1 is a protein on the surface of T cells that helps keep the bodys immune responses in check. When PD-1 attaches to another protein called PDL-1 on a cancer cell, it stops the T cell from killing the cancer cell. PD-1 inhibitors attach to PDL-1 and allow the T cells to kill cancer cells. Nivolumab and pembrolizumab are PD-1 inhibitors.                -  Vaccine therapy is a type of immunotherapy being studied to treat metastatic rhabdomyosarcoma.              Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to attack cancer cells. Targeted therapies usually cause less harm to normal cells than chemotherapy or radiation do. There are different types of targeted therapy:            -  mTOR inhibitors stop the protein that helps cells divide and survive. Sirolimus is a type of mTOR inhibitor therapy being studied in the treatment of recurrent rhabdomyosarcoma.     -  Tyrosine kinase inhibitors are small-molecule drugs that go through the cell membrane and work inside cancer cells to block signals that cancer cells need to grow and divide. MK-1775 is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor being studied in the treatment of recurrent rhabdomyosarcoma.     -  Antibody-drug conjugates are made up of a monoclonal antibody attached to a drug. The monoclonal antibody binds to specific proteins or receptors found on certain cells, including cancer cells. The drug enters these cells and kills them without harming other cells. Lorvotuzumab mertansine is an antibody-drug conjugate being studied in the treatment of recurrent rhabdomyosarcoma.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Adult Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
				                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Vaccine therapy     Vaccine therapy is a type of biologic therapy. Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patients immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the bodys natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biotherapy or immunotherapy. Vaccine therapy can also be a type of targeted therapy.
				                
				                
				                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
				                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
				                
				                
				                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
				                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant is a way of giving high doses of chemotherapy and replacing blood -forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the bodys blood cells.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.    Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Wilms Tumor and Other Childhood Kidney Tumors ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a treatment that uses drugs or other substances to identify and attack specific cancer cells without harming normal cells. Targeted therapy used to treat childhood kidney tumors may include the following:            -  Monoclonal antibodies: This targeted therapy uses antibodies made in the laboratory, from a single type of immune system cell. These antibodies can identify substances on cancer cells or normal substances that may help cancer cells grow. The antibodies attach to the substances and kill the cancer cells, block their growth, or keep them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies are given by infusion. They may be used alone or to carry drugs, toxins, or radioactive material directly to cancer cells. Lorvotuzumab is being studied in the treatment of recurrent Wilms tumor.     -  Kinase inhibitors: This targeted therapy blocks signals that cancer cells need to grow and divide. LOXO-101 and entrectinib are kinase inhibitors being studied to treat congenital mesoblastic nephroma.     -  Histone methyltransferase inhibitors: This targeted therapy slows down the cancer cell's ability to grow and divide. Tazemetostat is being studied in the treatment of rhabdoid tumor of the kidney.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Mycosis Fungoides and the Szary Syndrome ?
Answer: Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Primary CNS Lymphoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant is a method of giving high doses of chemotherapy and replacing blood -forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the body's blood cells.       Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to attack cancer cells. Targeted therapies usually cause less harm to normal cells than chemotherapy or radiation therapy do. Monoclonal antibody therapy is one type of targeted therapy being studied in the treatment of primary CNS lymphoma.    Monoclonal antibody therapy is a cancer treatment that uses antibodies made in the laboratory from a single type of immune system cell. These antibodies can identify substances on cancer cells or normal substances that may help cancer cells grow. The antibodies attach to the substances and kill the cancer cells, block their growth, or keep them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies are given by infusion. They may be used alone or to carry drugs, toxins, or radioactive material directly to cancer cells. Rituximab is a type of monoclonal antibody used to treat newly diagnosed primary CNS lymphoma in patients who do not have AIDS.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Ovarian Germ Cell Tumors ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     High-dose chemotherapy with bone marrow transplant     High-dose chemotherapy with bone marrow transplant is a method of giving very high doses of chemotherapy and replacing blood -forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the bodys blood cells.       New treatment options      Combination chemotherapy (the use of more than one anticancer drug) is being tested in clinical trials.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Plasma Cell Neoplasms (Including Multiple Myeloma) ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     New combinations of therapies     Clinical trials are studying different combinations of biologic therapy, chemotherapy, steroid therapy, and drugs. New treatment regimens using thalidomide or lenalidomide are also being studied.
                
                
                    Supportive care is given to lessen the problems caused by the disease or its treatment.
                    This therapy controls problems or side effects caused by the disease or its treatment, and improves quality of life. Supportive care is given to treat problems caused by multiple myeloma and other plasma cell neoplasms.     Supportive care may include the following:          -  Plasmapheresis: If the blood becomes thick with extra antibody proteins and interferes with circulation, plasmapheresis is done to remove extra plasma and antibody proteins from the blood. In this procedure blood is removed from the patient and sent through a machine that separates the plasma (the liquid part of the blood) from the blood cells. The patient's plasma contains the unneeded antibodies and is not returned to the patient. The normal blood cells are returned to the bloodstream along with donated plasma or a plasma replacement. Plasmapheresis does not keep new antibodies from forming.     -  High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant: If amyloidosis occurs, treatment may include high-dose chemotherapy followed by stem cell transplant using the patient's own stem cells.    -  Biologic therapy: Biologic therapy with thalidomide, lenalidomide, or pomalidomide is given to treat amyloidosis.    -  Targeted therapy: Targeted therapy with proteasome inhibitors is given to treat amyloidosis.    -  Radiation therapy: Radiation therapy is given for bone lesions of the spine.    -  Chemotherapy: Chemotherapy is given to reduce back pain from osteoporosis or compression fractures of the spine.    -  Bisphosphonate therapy: Bisphosphonate therapy is given to slow bone loss and reduce bone pain. See the following PDQ summaries for more information on bisphosphonates and problems related to their use:               - Cancer Pain      - Oral Complications of Chemotherapy and Head/Neck Radiation
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Pituitary Tumors ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Chemotherapy with stem cell transplant    Chemotherapy with stem cell transplant is a method of giving chemotherapy and replacing blood -forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the bodys blood cells.        Biologic therapy     Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patient's immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the body's natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biotherapy or immunotherapy.       Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy     CAR T-cell therapy is a type of immunotherapy that changes the patient's T cells (a type of immune system cell) so they will attack certain proteins on the surface of cancer cells. T cells are taken from the patient and special receptors are added to their surface in the laboratory. The changed cells are called chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells. The CAR T cells are grown in the laboratory and given to the patient by infusion. The CAR T cells multiply in the patient's blood and attack cancer cells. CAR T-cell therapy is being studied in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Penile Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Radiosensitizers     Radiosensitizers are drugs that make tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy. Combining radiation therapy with radiosensitizers helps kill more tumor cells.       Sentinel lymph node biopsy followed by surgery     Sentinel lymph node biopsy is the removal of the sentinel lymph node during surgery. The sentinel lymph node is the first lymph node to receive lymphatic drainage from a tumor. It is the first lymph node the cancer is likely to spread to from the tumor. A radioactive substance and/or blue dye is injected near the tumor. The substance or dye flows through the lymph ducts to the lymph nodes. The first lymph node to receive the substance or dye is removed. A pathologist views the tissue under a microscope to look for cancer cells. If cancer cells are not found, it may not be necessary to remove more lymph nodes. After the sentinel lymph node biopsy, the surgeon removes the cancer.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Thymoma and Thymic Carcinoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Testicular Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Hairy Cell Leukemia ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                 
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                 
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Adult Central Nervous System Tumors ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section refers to new treatments being studied in clinical trials, but it may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Proton beam radiation therapy     Proton beam radiation therapy is a type of high-energy, external radiation therapy that uses streams of protons (small, positively-charged pieces of matter) to make radiation. This type of radiation kills tumor cells with little damage to nearby tissues. It is used to treat cancers of the head, neck, and spine and organs such as the brain, eye, lung, and prostate. Proton beam radiation is different from x-ray radiation.        Biologic therapy     Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patients immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the bodys natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biotherapy or immunotherapy.    Biologic therapy is being studied for the treatment of some types of brain tumors. Treatments may include the following:            -  Dendritic cell vaccine therapy.     -  Gene therapy.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Pancreatic Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Biologic therapy     Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patients immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the bodys natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biotherapy or immunotherapy.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Adult Hodgkin Lymphoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Chemotherapy and radiation therapy with stem cell transplant     High-dose chemotherapy and radiation therapy with stem cell transplant is a way of giving high doses of chemotherapy and radiation therapy and replacing blood -forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After therapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the body's blood cells. The use of lower-dose chemotherapy and radiation therapy with stem cell transplant is also being studied.       Monoclonal antibody therapy      Monoclonal antibody therapy is a cancer treatment that uses antibodies made in the laboratory, from a single type of immune system cell. These antibodies can identify substances on cancer cells or normal substances that may help cancer cells grow. The antibodies attach to the substances and kill the cancer cells, block their growth, or keep them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies are given by infusion. They may be used alone or to carry drugs, toxins, or radioactive material directly to cancer cells.
                 
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Bile Duct Cancer (Cholangiocarcinoma) ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Liver transplant    In a liver transplant, the entire liver is removed and replaced with a healthy donated liver. A liver transplant may be done in patients with perihilar bile duct cancer. If the patient has to wait for a donated liver, other treatment is given as needed.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Intraocular (Uveal) Melanoma ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Chemoprevention     Chemoprevention is the use of drugs, vitamins, or other substances to reduce the risk of cancer or to reduce the risk cancer will recur (come back). For lung cancer, chemoprevention is used to lessen the chance that a new tumor will form in the lung.       Radiosensitizers     Radiosensitizers are substances that make tumor cells easier to kill with radiation therapy. The combination of chemotherapy and radiation therapy given with a radiosensitizer is being studied in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer.       New combinations    New combinations of treatments are being studied in clinical trials.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Ovarian Low Malignant Potential Tumors ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI Web site.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the medical research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for disease are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.    Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way diseases will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose disease has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop a disease from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's clinical trials database.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Osteosarcoma and Malignant Fibrous Histiocytoma of Bone ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
	                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about ongoing clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Targeted therapy      Targeted therapy is a treatment that uses drugs or other substances to find and attack specific cancer cells without harming normal cells. Kinase inhibitor therapy and monoclonal antibody therapy are types of targeted therapy being studied in clinical trials for osteosarcoma.     Kinase inhibitor therapy blocks a protein needed for cancer cells to divide. Sorafenib is a type of kinase inhibitor therapy being studied for the treatment of recurrent osteosarcoma.     Monoclonal antibody therapy is a cancer treatment that uses antibodies made in the laboratory, from a single type of immune system cell. These antibodies can identify substances on cancer cells or normal substances that may help cancer cells grow. The antibodies attach to the substances and kill the cancer cells, block their growth, or keep them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies are given by infusion. They may be used alone or to carry drugs, toxins, or radioactive material directly to cancer cells. Denosumab, dinutuximab, and glembatumumab are monoclonal antibodies being studied for the treatment of recurrent osteosarcoma.
	                
	                
	                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
	                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
	                
	                
	                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
	                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
	                
	                
	                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
	                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your child's condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
				                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to identify and attack specific cancer cells without harming normal cells. Monoclonal antibody therapy is one type of targeted therapy being studied in the treatment of adult AML.    Monoclonal antibody therapy is a cancer treatment that uses antibodies made in the laboratory from a single type of immune system cell. These antibodies can identify substances on cancer cells or normal substances that may help cancer cells grow. The antibodies attach to the substances and kill the cancer cells, block their growth, or keep them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies are given by infusion. They may be used alone or to carry drugs, toxins, or radioactive material directly to cancer cells.
				                
				                
				                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
				                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
				                
				                
				                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
				                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Oral Cavity and Oropharyngeal Cancer ?
Answer: Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.
                    Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to lower the risk of certain types of cancer. Some cancer prevention trials are done with healthy people who have not had cancer but who have an increased risk for cancer. Other prevention trials are done with people who have had cancer and are trying to prevent another cancer of the same type or to lower their chance of developing a new type of cancer. Other trials are done with healthy volunteers who are not known to have any risk factors for cancer.    The purpose of some cancer prevention clinical trials is to find out whether actions people take can prevent cancer. These may include eating fruits and vegetables, exercising, quitting smoking, or taking certain medicines, vitamins, minerals, or food supplements.
                
                
                    New ways to prevent oral cavity cancer and oropharyngeal cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                    Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about clinical trials can be found in the Clinical Trials section of the NCI website. Check NCI's list of cancer clinical trials for oral cavity cancer prevention trials and oropharyngeal cancer prevention trials that are now accepting patients.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Astrocytomas ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Other drug therapy     Lenalidomide is a type of angiogenesis inhibitor. It prevents the growth of new blood vessels that are needed by a tumor to grow.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Prostate Cancer ?
Answer: New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Cryosurgery     Cryosurgery is a treatment that uses an instrument to freeze and destroy prostate cancer cells. Ultrasound is used to find the area that will be treated. This type of treatment is also called cryotherapy.    Cryosurgery can cause impotence and leakage of urine from the bladder or stool from the rectum.       High-intensityfocused ultrasound therapy     High-intensityfocused ultrasound therapy is a treatment that uses ultrasound (high-energy sound waves) to destroy cancer cells. To treat prostate cancer, an endorectal probe is used to make the sound waves.       Proton beam radiation therapy     Proton beam radiation therapy is a type of high-energy, external radiation therapy that targets tumors with streams of protons (small, positively charged particles). This type of radiation therapy is being studied in the treatment of prostate cancer.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Gout ?
Answer: Because uric acids role in gout is well understood and medications to ease attacks and reduce the risk or severity of future attacks are widely available, gout is one of the mostif not the mostcontrollable forms of arthritis. But researchers continue to make advances that help people live with gout. Perhaps someday these advances will prevent this extremely painful disease. Here are some areas of gout research. - Refining current treatments. Although many medications are available to treat gout, doctors are trying to determine which of the treatments are most effective and at which dosages. Recent studies have compared the effectiveness of different NSAIDs in treating the pain and inflammation of gout and have looked at the optimal dosages of other treatments to control and/or prevent painful attacks. Refining current treatments. Although many medications are available to treat gout, doctors are trying to determine which of the treatments are most effective and at which dosages. Recent studies have compared the effectiveness of different NSAIDs in treating the pain and inflammation of gout and have looked at the optimal dosages of other treatments to control and/or prevent painful attacks. -  Evaluating new therapies. A number of new therapies have shown promise in recent studies including biologic agents that block a chemical called tumor necrosis factor. This chemical is believed to play a role in the inflammation of gout.  Evaluating new therapies. A number of new therapies have shown promise in recent studies including biologic agents that block a chemical called tumor necrosis factor. This chemical is believed to play a role in the inflammation of gout. -   Discovering the role of foods. Gout is the one form of arthritis for which there is proof that specific foods worsen the symptoms. Now, research is suggesting that certain foods may also prevent gout. In one study scientists found that a high intake of low-fat dairy products reduces the risk of gout in men by half. The reason for this protective effect is not yet known. Another study examining the effects of vitamin C on uric acid suggests that it may be beneficial in the prevention and management of gout and other diseases that are associated with uric acid production.  Discovering the role of foods. Gout is the one form of arthritis for which there is proof that specific foods worsen the symptoms. Now, research is suggesting that certain foods may also prevent gout. In one study scientists found that a high intake of low-fat dairy products reduces the risk of gout in men by half. The reason for this protective effect is not yet known. Another study examining the effects of vitamin C on uric acid suggests that it may be beneficial in the prevention and management of gout and other diseases that are associated with uric acid production. -  Searching for new treatment approaches. Scientists are also studying the contributions of different types of cells that participate in both the acute and chronic joint manifestations of gout. The specific goals of this research are to better understand how urate crystals activate white blood cells called neutrophils, leading to acute gout attacks; how urate crystals affect the immune system, leading to chronic gout; and how urate crystals interact with bone cells in a way that causes debilitating bone lesions among people with chronic gout. The hope is that a better understanding of the various inflammatory reactions that occur in gout will provide innovative clues for treatment.  Searching for new treatment approaches. Scientists are also studying the contributions of different types of cells that participate in both the acute and chronic joint manifestations of gout. The specific goals of this research are to better understand how urate crystals activate white blood cells called neutrophils, leading to acute gout attacks; how urate crystals affect the immune system, leading to chronic gout; and how urate crystals interact with bone cells in a way that causes debilitating bone lesions among people with chronic gout. The hope is that a better understanding of the various inflammatory reactions that occur in gout will provide innovative clues for treatment. - Examining how genetics and environmental factors can affect hyperuricemia. Researchers are studying different populations in which gout is prevalent to determine how certain genes and environmental factors may affect blood levels of uric acid, which can leak out and crystallize in the joint, leading to gout.  Examining how genetics and environmental factors can affect hyperuricemia. Researchers are studying different populations in which gout is prevalent to determine how certain genes and environmental factors may affect blood levels of uric acid, which can leak out and crystallize in the joint, leading to gout.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Lung Cancer ?
Answer: Researchers continue to look at new ways to combine, schedule, and sequence the use of chemotherapy, surgery, and radiation to treat lung cancer. Today, some of the most promising treatment approaches incorporate precision medicine. This approach first looks to see what genes may be mutated that are causing the cancer, and once these genes are identified, specific drugs may be available that target the mutations and treat the cancer directly without the harsh side-effects often found with conventional chemotherapy. Researchers are also constantly trying to come up with new ways to find and diagnose lung cancer in order to catch it and treat it in its earliest stages. The National Lung Screening Trial, or NLST, showed conclusively that spiral CT reduced the risk of dying by 20 percent compared to those who received a chest x-ray among heavy smokers Get more information on current lung cancer research.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Age-related Macular Degeneration ?
Answer: The National Eye Institute scientists are - studying the possibility of transplanting healthy cells into a diseased retina   - evaluating families with a history of AMD to understand genetic and hereditary factors that may cause the disease  - looking at certain anti-inflammatory treatments for the wet form of AMD. studying the possibility of transplanting healthy cells into a diseased retina evaluating families with a history of AMD to understand genetic and hereditary factors that may cause the disease looking at certain anti-inflammatory treatments for the wet form of AMD. This research should provide better ways to detect, treat, and prevent vision loss in people with AMD.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Breast Cancer ?
Answer: New Technologies Several new technologies offer hope for making future treatment easier for women with breast cancer. - Using a special tool, doctors can today insert a miniature camera through the nipple and into a milk duct in the breast to examine the area for cancer.  Using a special tool, doctors can today insert a miniature camera through the nipple and into a milk duct in the breast to examine the area for cancer. - Researchers are testing another technique to help women who have undergone weeks of conventional radiation therapy. Using a small catheter -- a tube with a balloon tip -- doctors can deliver tiny radioactive beads to a place on the breast where cancer tissue has been removed. This can reduce the therapy time to a matter of days. Researchers are testing another technique to help women who have undergone weeks of conventional radiation therapy. Using a small catheter -- a tube with a balloon tip -- doctors can deliver tiny radioactive beads to a place on the breast where cancer tissue has been removed. This can reduce the therapy time to a matter of days. New Drug Combination Therapies New drug therapies and combination therapies continue to evolve. - A mix of drugs may increase the length of time you will live or the length of time you will live without cancer. It may someday prove useful for some women with localized breast cancer after they have had surgery.  A mix of drugs may increase the length of time you will live or the length of time you will live without cancer. It may someday prove useful for some women with localized breast cancer after they have had surgery. - New research shows women with early-stage breast cancer who took the drug letrozole, an aromatase inhibitor, after they completed five years of tamoxifen therapy significantly reduced their risk of breast cancer recurrence. New research shows women with early-stage breast cancer who took the drug letrozole, an aromatase inhibitor, after they completed five years of tamoxifen therapy significantly reduced their risk of breast cancer recurrence. Treating HER2-Positive Breast Cancer Herceptin is a drug commonly used to treat women who have a certain type of breast cancer. This drug slows or stops the growth of cancer cells by blocking HER2, a protein found on the surface of some types of breast cancer cells. Approximately 20 to 25 percent of breast cancers produce too much HER2. These "HER2 positive" tumors tend to grow faster and are generally more likely to return than tumors that do not overproduce HER2. Results from clinical trials show that those patients with early-stage HER2 positive breast cancer who received Herceptin in combination with chemotherapy had a 52 percent decrease in risk in the cancer returning compared with patients who received chemotherapy treatment alone. Cancer treatments like chemotherapy can be systemic, meaning they affect whole tissues, organs, or the entire body. Herceptin, however, was the first drug used to target only a specific molecule involved in breast cancer. Another drug, Tykerb, was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for use for treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer. Because of the availability of these two drugs, an international trial called ALTTO was designed to determine if one drug is more effective, safer, and if taking the drugs separately, in tandem order, or together is better. Unfortunately, the results, released in 2014, showed that taking two HER2-targeted agents together was no better than taking one alone in improving survival. The TAILORx Trial In an attempt to further specialize breast cancer treatment, The Trial Assigning Individualized Options for Treatment, or TAILORx, enrolled 10,000 women to examine whether appropriate treatment can be assigned based on genes that are frequently associated with risk of recurrence of breast cancer. The goal of TAILORx is important because the majority of women with early-stage breast cancer are advised to receive chemotherapy in addition to radiation and hormonal therapy, yet research has not demonstrated that chemotherapy benefits all of them equally. TAILORx seeks to examine many of a woman's genes simultaneously and use this information in choosing a treatment course, thus sparing women unnecessary treatment if chemotherapy is not likely to be of substantial benefit to them.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Breast Cancer ?
Answer: Clinical trials are research studies on people to find out whether a new drug or treatment is both safe and effective. New therapies are tested on people only after laboratory and animal studies show promising results. The Food and Drug Administration sets strict rules to make sure that people who agree to be in the studies are treated as safely as possible. Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about clinical trials can be found at http://www.cancer.gov/clinicaltrials on the website of the National Cancer Institute (NCI). Check NCI's list of cancer clinical trials for breast cancer prevention trials that are now accepting patients.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Glaucoma ?
Answer: Through studies in the laboratory and with patients, the National Eye Institute is seeking better ways to detect, treat, and prevent vision loss in people with glaucoma. For example, researchers have discovered genes that could help explain how glaucoma damages the eye. NEI also is supporting studies to learn more about who is likely to get glaucoma, when to treat people who have increased eye pressure, and which treatment to use first.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Kidney Disease ?
Answer: Many areas of Research Researchers are working at every stage of kidney disease to improve diagnosis and treatment, including -  trying to find a better way to identify who is at greatest risk for rapidly progressing kidney disease  -  trying to find more effective medications to treat kidney disease and its risk factors, and   -  improving dialysis and the results of kidney transplantation. trying to find a better way to identify who is at greatest risk for rapidly progressing kidney disease trying to find more effective medications to treat kidney disease and its risk factors, and improving dialysis and the results of kidney transplantation. Several areas of research supported by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) hold great potential. Emphasis is being placed on research related to prevention and early intervention in kidney disease. Interaction With Other Diseases Another focus is on the interaction between kidney disease, diabetes, and cardiovascular (heart) disease. Advances in treatments for diabetes and high blood pressure may help reduce the damage these conditions do to the kidneys in the first place. Research into how to predict who will develop kidney disease may improve prevention. Disease Progression NIDDK is sponsoring a major study -- the Chronic Renal Insufficiency Cohort (CRIC) study -- to learn more about how kidney disease progresses. CRIC is following 6,000 adults with mild to moderate kidney disease. About half have diabetes. It is believed that some CRIC study participants' kidney function will decline more rapidly than others', and that some will develop cardiovascular disease while others won't. The goal of the study is to identify the factors linked to rapid decline of kidney function and the development of cardiovascular disease. The data and specimens collected from study participants will be available to other researchers who are studying kidney disease and cardiovascular disease. The CRIC study will allow future investigation into the role of genetic, environmental, behavioral, nutritional, and other factors in kidney disease.  Learn more about the CRIC Study.  Improving Transplants In the area of transplantation, researchers are working to develop new drugs that help the body accept donated organs. The goal is to help transplanted kidneys survive longer and work better. NIDDK scientists are also developing new techniques to improve the body's tolerance for foreign tissue even before the donated kidney is transplanted. This could help reduce or eliminate the need for drugs that suppress the immune system, which could reduce transplantation costs and complications. In the future, scientists may even develop an artificial kidney for implantation.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Kidney Disease ?
Answer: There are many researchers who are working on kidney disease. They are looking for ways to improve diagnosis, make treatments more effective, and make dialysis and transplantation work better. Several areas of research supported by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) hold great potential. Emphasis is being placed on research related to prevention and early intervention in kidney disease. Another focus is on the interaction between diabetes, kidney disease, and cardiovascular disease. Advances in treatments for diabetes and high blood pressure may help reduce the damage these conditions do to the kidneys in the first place. Research into how to predict who will develop kidney disease may improve prevention.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Peripheral Arterial Disease (P.A.D.) ?
Answer: The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) supports research aimed at learning more about peripheral arterial disease (P.A.D.). For example, NHLBI-supported research on P.A.D. includes studies that - explore whether group walking sessions increase physical activity in people who have P.A.D.  - compare how effective certain exercise programs are at reducing leg pain in people who have P.A.D.  - examine how inflammation and insulin resistance affect people who have P.A.D.  explore whether group walking sessions increase physical activity in people who have P.A.D. compare how effective certain exercise programs are at reducing leg pain in people who have P.A.D. examine how inflammation and insulin resistance affect people who have P.A.D. Much of this research depends on the willingness of volunteers to take part in clinical trials. Clinical trials test new ways to prevent, diagnose, or treat various diseases and conditions. Carefully conducted clinical trials are the fastest and safest way to find treatments that work in people and ways to improve health. For more information about clinical trials related to P.A.D., talk with your doctor. You also can visit the following Web sites to learn more about clinical research and to search for clinical trials. - http://www.nih.gov/health/clinicaltrials/  - http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/  - http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/studies/index.htm  - https://www.researchmatch.org/  - http://www.cleverstudy.org/ http://www.nih.gov/health/clinicaltrials/ http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/studies/index.htm https://www.researchmatch.org/ http://www.cleverstudy.org/

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Rheumatoid Arthritis ?
Answer: Scientists are making rapid progress in understanding the complexities of rheumatoid arthritis. They are learning more about how and why it develops and why some people have more severe symptoms than others. Research efforts are focused on developing drugs that can reduce inflammation and slow or stop the disease with few side effects. Identifying Possible Triggers Some evidence shows that infectious agents, such as viruses and bacteria, may contribute to triggering rheumatoid arthritis in people with an inherited tendency to develop the disease. Investigators are trying to identify the infectious agents and understand how they work. This knowledge could lead to new therapies. Why More Women Than Men? Researchers are also exploring why so many more women than men develop rheumatoid arthritis. In the hope of finding clues, they are studying complex relationships between the hormonal, nervous, and immune systems in rheumatoid arthritis. For example, they are exploring whether and how the normal changes in the levels of steroid hormones such as estrogen and testosterone during a person's lifetime may be related to the development, improvement, or flares of the disease. Scientists are also examining why rheumatoid arthritis often improves during pregnancy. Learn more about current research on rheumatoid arthritis. Interested in Clinical Trials? The U.S. National Institutes of Health, through its National Library of Medicine and other Institutes, maintains a database of clinical trials at Clinical Trials.gov.  To see a list of current clinical trials on rheumatoid arthritis, type "rheumatoid arthritis" into the search box.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Diabetic Retinopathy ?
Answer: The National Eye Institute, or NEI, is conducting and supporting research that seeks better ways to detect, treat, and prevent vision loss in people with diabetes. This research is conducted through studies in the laboratory and with patients. For example, researchers are studying drugs for the treatment of proliferative retinopathy that may reduce the need for laser surgery.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Prostate Cancer ?
Answer: Scientists continue to look at new ways to prevent, treat, and diagnose prostate cancer. Research has already led to a number of advances in these areas. Dietary Research Several studies are under way to explore the causes of prostate cancer. Some researchers think that diet may affect a man's chances of developing prostate cancer. For example, some studies show that prostate cancer is more common in populations that consume a high-fat diet, particularly animal fat, and in populations with diets that lack certain nutrients. Research on Testosterone Some research suggests that high levels of testosterone may increase a man's risk of prostate cancer. The difference in prostate cancer risk among racial groups could be related to high testosterone levels, but it also could result from diet or other lifestyle factors. Genetic Research Researchers are studying changes in genes that may increase the risk for developing prostate cancer. Some studies are looking at the genes of men who were diagnosed with prostate cancer at a relatively young age, such as less than 55 years old, and the genes of families who have several members with the disease. Other studies are trying to identify which genes, or arrangements of genes, are most likely to lead to prostate cancer. Much more work is needed, however, before scientists can say exactly how genetic changes relate to prostate cancer. Prevention Research Several studies have explored ways to prevent prostate cancer. In October 2008, initial results of a study on the use of the dietary supplements vitamin E and selenium found that they did not provide any benefit in reducing the number of new cases of the disease. A few studies suggest that a diet that regularly includes tomato-based foods may help protect men from prostate cancer, but there are no studies that conclusively prove this hypothesis. According to results of a study that was re-analyzed in 2013, men who took finasteride, a drug that affects male hormone levels, reduced their chances of getting prostate cancer by nearly 30 percent compared to men who took a placebo. Unlike earlier findings from this study, this new analysis showed no increased risk of late stage disease due to use of finasteride. Stopping Prostate Cancer from Returning Scientists are also looking at ways to stop prostate cancer from returning in men who have already been treated for the disease. These approaches use drugs such as finasteride, flutamide, nilutamide, and LH-RH agonists that manipulate hormone levels. In 2010, the FDA approved a therapeutic cancer vaccine, Provenge, for use in some men with metastatic prostate cancer. Provenge may provide a 4-month improvement in overall survival compared with a placebo vaccine. Other similar vaccine therapies are in development. Research on New Blood Tests Some researchers are working to develop new blood tests to detect the antibodies that the immune system produces to fight prostate cancer. When used along with PSA testing, the antibody tests may provide more accurate results about whether or not a man has prostate cancer. Researching New Approaches to Treatment Through research, doctors are trying to find new, more effective ways to treat prostate cancer. Cryosurgery -- destroying cancer by freezing it -- is under study as an alternative to surgery and radiation therapy. To avoid damaging healthy tissue, the doctor places an instrument known as a cryoprobe in direct contact with the tumor to freeze it. Doctors are studying new ways of using radiation therapy and hormonal therapy, too. Studies have shown that hormonal therapy given after radiation therapy can help certain men whose cancer has spread to nearby tissues. Scientists are also testing the effectiveness of chemotherapy and biological therapy for men whose cancer does not respond, or stops responding, to hormonal therapy. They are also exploring new ways to schedule and combine various treatments. For example, they are studying hormonal therapy to find out if using it to shrink the tumor before a man has surgery or radiation might be a useful approach. For men with early stage prostate cancer, researchers are also comparing treatment with watchful waiting. The results of this work will help doctors know whether to treat early stage prostate cancer immediately or only later on, if symptoms occur or worsen.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Problems with Taste ?
Answer: The National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders (NIDCD) supports basic and clinical investigations of smell and taste disorders at its laboratories in Bethesda, Md. and at universities and chemosensory research centers across the country. These chemosensory scientists are exploring how to - prevent the effects of aging on taste and smell   -  develop new diagnostic tests  -  understand associations between taste disorders and changes in diet and food preferences in the elderly or among people with chronic illnesses  - improve treatment methods and rehabilitation strategies.  prevent the effects of aging on taste and smell develop new diagnostic tests understand associations between taste disorders and changes in diet and food preferences in the elderly or among people with chronic illnesses improve treatment methods and rehabilitation strategies. Studies on Aging and Taste A recent NIDCD-funded study has shown that small variations in our genetic code can raise or lower our sensitivity to sweet tastes, which might influence a persons desire for sweets. Scientists have also made progress in understanding how our sense of taste changes as we age. Older adults often decide what to eat based on how much they like or dislike certain tastes. Scientists are looking at how and why this happens in order to develop more effective ways to help older people cope better with taste problems. Studies on Taste Receptors Some of the most recent chemosensory research focuses on identifying the key receptors expressed by our taste cells and understanding how those receptors send signals to the brain. Researchers are also working to develop a better understanding of how sweet and bitter substances attach to their targeted receptors. This research holds promise for the development of sugar or salt substitutes that could help combat obesity or hypertension, as well as the development of bitter blockers that could make life-saving medicines more acceptable to children. Taste cellsas well as sensory cells that help us smellare the only sensory cells in the human body that are regularly replaced throughout life. Researchers are exploring how and why this happens so that they might find ways to replace other damaged sensory cells. Gut and Sweet Receptors Scientists are gaining a better understanding of why the same receptor that helps our tongue detect sweet taste can also be found in the human gut. Recent research has shown that the sweet receptor helps the intestine to sense and absorb sugar and turn up the production of blood sugar-regulation hormones, including the hormone that regulates insulin release. Further research may help scientists develop drugs targeting the gut taste receptors to treat obesity and diabetes. Effects of Medications on Taste Scientists are also working to find out why some medications and medical procedures can have a harmful effect on our senses of taste and smell. They hope to develop treatments to help restore the sense of taste to people who have lost it.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Problems with Taste ?
Answer: The National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders (NIDCD) supports basic and clinical investigations of smell and taste disorders at its laboratories in Bethesda, Md. and at universities and chemosensory research centers across the country. These chemosensory scientists are exploring how to - prevent the effects of aging on taste and smell   - develop new diagnostic tests   - understand associations between taste disorders and changes in diet and food preferences in the elderly or among people with chronic illnesses  - improve treatment methods and rehabilitation strategies.  prevent the effects of aging on taste and smell develop new diagnostic tests understand associations between taste disorders and changes in diet and food preferences in the elderly or among people with chronic illnesses improve treatment methods and rehabilitation strategies.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Depression ?
Answer: Treating Older Adults Studies show that the majority of older adults with depression improve when they receive treatment with an antidepressant, psychotherapy or a combination of both. In addition, research has indicated that treating depression in older adults often improves the outcomes of co-existing medical conditions. Some research has also suggested that the risk for developing depression in people who have had a stroke may be reduced if they receive preventative treatment with an antidepressant or talk therapy. Special Considerations However, there are some special considerations that doctors must take into account when treating older adults. The commonly prescribed medications for depression may not work well for some older adults because they may interact unfavorably with other medications being taken for other conditions. Some older adults with depression may also have some problems thinking clearly, and these individuals often respond poorly to the drugs. Which Form of Treatment Is Most Effective? Many older adults prefer to get counseling or psychotherapy for depression rather than add more medications to those they are already taking for other conditions. Research suggests that for older adults, psychotherapy is just as likely to be an effective first treatment for depression as taking an antidepressant. There is a great deal of evidence indicating that cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), including a version called problem solving therapy, may be an especially useful type of psychotherapy for treating older adults and improving their quality of life. However, a practical issue to consider when deciding on treatment is that it may be harder for many older people to find or be able to travel to meetings with a well-trained psychotherapist than to get a prescription for antidepressant medication from their primary care doctor. Also, some research suggests that treatment with medication may be more effective if the depression is quite severe or if the older adult is coping with other serious illnesses. Overall, research has suggested that, when possible, a combination of medication and psychotherapy treatment is likely to be most effective in treating depression in older adults and, in particular, for reducing the number of new episodes. Late-Life Depression is Often Undiagnosed Despite progress in treatment research, late-life depression often goes undiagnosed or is inadequately treated in older adults. In fact, several studies have found that up to 75 percent of older adults who die by suicide had visited their primary care doctors within one month of their deaths. Collaborative or comprehensive care may lead to better treatment results. Collaborative Care The Prevention of Suicide in Primary Care Elderly: Collaborative Trial (PROSPECT) offered antidepressant medication and/or psychotherapy to depressed older adults, along with a "care manager" -- a social worker, nurse or psychologist -- who monitored their symptoms, side effects of medication, and progress. The study found that those participants who had case-managed care got better more quickly, had longer periods without depression, and in general responded better to treatment than those who did not have case-managed care. Another study called the Improving Mood: Promoting Access to Collaborative Treatment (IMPACT) trial also found that collaborative care was more effective than usual care, and was less expensive over the long run as well. Improving Diagnosis of Depression Several studies are looking at ways to help older adults get better access to depression treatment. One is developing and testing an education and intervention program to help primary care clinics and providers identify and treat late-life depression. Another study found that depressed older adults who had a "care manager" monitor their symptoms, side effects, and progress got better more quickly -- and stayed better longer -- than those who did not have case-managed care. Still other projects are investigating ways of improving older adults engagement in and ability to follow treatment plans for depression. Researchers are also looking at ways to -  better understand the relationship between other medical illnesses and depression   - integrate treatment for depression with treatments for other medical conditions a person may have  - produce a quicker response to treatment   - develop new methods for delivering treatment to those who are homebound, unable to move around without assistance, or who live in rural areas. (e.g., via use of telephonic or internet-assisted therapies)  - help prevent depression by keeping it from developing or recurring in those at risk or by preventing those with milder symptoms from progressing to more severe episodes of depression. better understand the relationship between other medical illnesses and depression integrate treatment for depression with treatments for other medical conditions a person may have produce a quicker response to treatment develop new methods for delivering treatment to those who are homebound, unable to move around without assistance, or who live in rural areas. (e.g., via use of telephonic or internet-assisted therapies) help prevent depression by keeping it from developing or recurring in those at risk or by preventing those with milder symptoms from progressing to more severe episodes of depression. Findings from these and other studies will provide important information for doctors to treat late-life depression. In a Crisis? Get Help! If you are in a crisis... If you are thinking about harming yourself or attempting suicide, tell someone who can help immediately. - Call your doctor.  - Call 911 for emergency services.  - Go to the nearest hospital emergency room.  - Call the toll-free, 24-hour hotline of the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK (1-800-273-8255); TTY: 1-800-799-4TTY (4889) to be connected to a trained counselor at a suicide crisis center nearest you. Call your doctor. Call 911 for emergency services. Go to the nearest hospital emergency room. Call the toll-free, 24-hour hotline of the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK (1-800-273-8255); TTY: 1-800-799-4TTY (4889) to be connected to a trained counselor at a suicide crisis center nearest you.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Alzheimer's Disease ?
Answer: Research supported by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and other organizations has expanded knowledge of brain function in healthy older people, identified ways that may lessen age-related cognitive decline, and deepened our understanding of Alzheimers. Many scientists and physicians are working together to untangle the genetic, biological, and environmental factors that might cause Alzheimers disease. This effort is bringing us closer to better managing and, ultimately, better treating and preventing this devastating disease. Types of Research Different types of researchbasic, translational, and clinical researchare conducted to better understand Alzheimers and find ways to treat, delay, or prevent the disease. - Basic research helps scientists gain new knowledge about a disease process, including how and why it starts and progresses.   - Translational research grows out of basic research. It creates new medicines, devices, or behavioral interventions aimed at preventing, diagnosing, or treating a disease.  - Clinical research is medical research involving people. It includes clinical studies, which observe and gather information about large groups of people. It also includes clinical trials, which test a medicine, therapy, medical device, or other intervention in people to see if it is safe and effective. Basic research helps scientists gain new knowledge about a disease process, including how and why it starts and progresses. Translational research grows out of basic research. It creates new medicines, devices, or behavioral interventions aimed at preventing, diagnosing, or treating a disease. Clinical research is medical research involving people. It includes clinical studies, which observe and gather information about large groups of people. It also includes clinical trials, which test a medicine, therapy, medical device, or other intervention in people to see if it is safe and effective.  See the latest Alzheimers Disease Progress Report to read about results of NIA-supported Alzheimers research. Basic Research Basic research seeks to identify the cellular, molecular, and genetic processes that lead to Alzheimers disease. Basic research has focused on two of the main signs of Alzheimers disease in the brain: plaques and tangles. Plaques are made of a protein called beta-amyloid and form abnormal clumps outside nerve cells in the brain. Tangles are made from a protein called tau and form twisted bundles of fibers within nerve cells in the brain. Scientists are studying how plaques and tangles damage nerve cells in the brain. They can see beta-amyloid plaques and tau tangles by making images of the brains of living people. Such imaging has led to clinical trials that are looking at ways to remove beta-amyloid from the human brain or halt its production before more brain damage occurs. Scientists are also exploring the very earliest brain changes in the disease process. Findings will help them better understand the causes of Alzheimers. As they learn more, they are likely to come up with better targets for further research. Over time, this might lead to more effective therapies to delay or prevent the disease. Genetics is another important area of basic research. Discovering more about the role of genes that increase or decrease the risk of developing Alzheimers will help researchers answers questions such as What makes the disease process begin? and Why do some people with memory and other thinking problems develop Alzheimers disease while others do not? Genetics research helps scientists learn how risk-factor genes interact with other genes and lifestyle or environmental factors to affect Alzheimers risk. This research also helps identify people who are at high risk for developing Alzheimers and can participate in clinical research on new prevention and treatment approaches. Translational Research Translational research allows new knowledge from basic research to be applied to a clinical research setting. An important goal of Alzheimers translational research is to increase the number and variety of potential new medicines and other interventions that are approved for testing in humans. Scientists also examine medicines approved to treat other diseases to see they might be effective in people with Alzheimers. The most promising interventions are tested in test-tube and animal studies to make sure they are safe and effective. Currently, a number of different substances are under development that may one day be used to treat or prevent the symptoms of Alzheimers disease and mild cognitive impairment. Clinical Research Clinical research is medical research involving people. It includes clinical studies, which observe and gather information about large groups of people. It also includes clinical trials, which test medicines, therapies, medical devices, or other interventions in people to see if they are safe and effective. Clinical trials are the best way to find out whether a particular intervention actually slows, delays, or prevents Alzheimers disease. Trials may compare a potential new treatment with a standard treatment or placebo (mock treatment). Or, they may study whether a certain behavior or condition affects the progress of Alzheimers or the chances of developing it. NIH, drug companies, and other research organizations are conducting many clinical trials to test possible new treatments that may - improve memory, thinking, and reasoning skills in people with Alzheimers or mild cognitive impairment  - relieve the behavior problems of Alzheimers, such as aggression and agitation  - delay the progression from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to Alzheimers   - prevent Alzheimers disease. improve memory, thinking, and reasoning skills in people with Alzheimers or mild cognitive impairment relieve the behavior problems of Alzheimers, such as aggression and agitation delay the progression from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to Alzheimers prevent Alzheimers disease. A wide variety of interventions are being tested in clinical trials. They include experimental drugs as well as non-drug approaches.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Alzheimer's Disease ?
Answer: All types of people are needed to volunteer for Alzheimers research. People with Alzheimer's disease or MCI, those with a family history of Alzheimers, and healthy people with no memory problems and no family history of Alzheimers may be able to take part in clinical trials. Participants in clinical trials help scientists learn about the brain in healthy aging and in Alzheimers. Results of these trials are used to improve prevention and treatment methods. The Alzheimers Disease Education and Referral (ADEAR) Centers clinical trials finder makes it easy for people to find out about studies that are sponsored by the federal government and private companies, universities, and other organizations. It includes studies testing new ways to detect, treat, delay, and prevent Alzheimers disease, other dementias, and MCI. You can search for studies about a certain topic or in a certain geographic area by going to www.nia.nih.gov/alzheimers/clinical-trials. To find out more about Alzheimers clinical trials, talk to your health care provider or contact the ADEAR Center at 1-800-438-4380 or adear@nia.nih.gov. Also, visit its website at  www.nia.nih.gov/alzheimers/volunteer.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Alzheimer's Disease ?
Answer: Basic research helps scientists gain new knowledge about a disease process, including how and why it starts and progresses. In Alzheimers disease, basic research seeks to identify the cellular, molecular, and genetic processes that lead to the disease. For example, scientists are studying - the ways in which plaques and tangles damage nerve cells in the brain  - the very earliest brain changes in the disease process  - the role of Alzheimers risk-factor genes in the development of the disease  - how risk-factor genes interact with other genes and lifestyle or environmental factors to affect Alzheimers risk. the ways in which plaques and tangles damage nerve cells in the brain the very earliest brain changes in the disease process the role of Alzheimers risk-factor genes in the development of the disease how risk-factor genes interact with other genes and lifestyle or environmental factors to affect Alzheimers risk. See the latest Alzheimers Disease Progress Report to read about results of NIA-supported Alzheimers research.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Alzheimer's Disease ?
Answer: Translational research grows out of basic research. It creates new medicines, devices, or behavioral interventions aimed at preventing, diagnosing, or treating a disease. An important goal of Alzheimers translational research is to increase the number and variety of potential new medicines and other interventions that are approved for testing in humans. Scientists also examine medicines approved to treat other diseases to see they might be effective in people with Alzheimers. The most promising interventions are tested in test-tube and animal studies to make sure they are safe and effective. Currently, a number of different substances are under development that may one day be used to treat the symptoms of Alzheimers disease or mild cognitive impairment. See the latest Alzheimers Disease Progress Report to read about results of NIA-supported Alzheimers research.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Alzheimer's Disease ?
Answer: Clinical research is medical research involving people. It includes clinical studies, which observe and gather information about large groups of people. It also includes clinical trials, which test a medicine, therapy, medical device, or intervention in people to see if it is safe and effective. Clinical trials are the best way to find out whether a particular intervention actually slows, delays, or prevents Alzheimers disease. Trials may compare a potential new treatment with a standard treatment or placebo (mock treatment). Or, they may study whether a certain behavior or condition affects the progress of Alzheimers or the chances of developing it. See the latest Alzheimers Disease Progress Report to read about results of NIA-supported Alzheimers research.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Psoriasis ?
Answer: Scientists who are working to better understand and treat psoriasis are making headway in several different areas. The Role of T Cells Scientists believe that psoriasis occurs when white blood cells called T cells, which normally help fight infections, attack the bodys skin cells by mistake. Scientists are working to understand what causes these cells to go awry in people with psoriasis. Their hope is that by better understanding why T cells attack the bodys healthy skin tissue, they can develop better treatments to stop or prevent that damaging process. New Treatments Since discovering that T cells attack skin cells in psoriasis, researchers have been studying new treatments that quiet immune system reactions in the skin. Among these are treatments that block the activity of T cells or block cytokines (proteins that promote inflammation). If researchers find a way to target only the disease-causing immune reactions while leaving the rest of the immune system alone, resulting treatments could benefit psoriasis patients as well as those with other autoimmune diseases (when the immune system attacks the bodys own tissues). Currently there are a number of potential psoriasis treatments in clinical trials, including injections, pills, and topical ointments. Clinical trials are research studies with volunteers in which drugs are tested for the effectiveness and safety. All drugs must complete and pass this process before they can be approved by the FDA. Psoriasis Genes Because psoriasis is more common among people who have one or more family members with the disease, scientists have long suspected that genes are involved. A number of genetic loci  specific locations on the genes  have been associated with the development of psoriasis or the severity or progression of the disease. In 2012, scientists discovered the first gene to be directly linked to development of plaque psoriasis. Researchers continue to study the genetic aspects of psoriasis, and some studies are looking at the nervous system to determine the genes responsible for the circuitry that causes itching. Psoriasis-related Conditions Research in recent years has shown that people with psoriasis are more likely to develop other health problems, including problems with the heart and blood vessels. Research is continuing to examine links between psoriasis and other health problems. Scientists are working to understand how and why these diseases occur in people with psoriasis, with the hope that this understanding will lead to better treatments for both psoriasis and the related diseases. Stress Reduction Treatment For many people with psoriasis, life stresses cause the disease to worsen or become more active. Research suggests that stress is associated with the increased production of chemicals by the immune system that promote inflammation. The same chemicals may play a role in the anxiety and depression that is common in people with psoriasis. Researchers are studying the use of stress reduction techniques, along with medical treatment, in the hope that reducing stress will both lower anxiety and improve the skin lesions of psoriasis. Where to Find More Information More information on research is available from the following websites. - NIH Clinical Research Trials and You helps people learn more about clinical trials, why they matter, and how to participate. Visitors to the website will find information about the basics of participating in a clinical trial, first-hand stories from actual clinical trial volunteers, explanations from researchers, and links to help you search for a trial or enroll in a research-matching program.  - ClinicalTrials.gov offers up-to-date information for locating federally and privately supported clinical trials for a wide range of diseases and conditions.  - NIH RePORTER is an electronic tool that allows users to search a repository of both intramural and extramural NIH-funded research projects from the past 25 years and access publications (since 1985) and patents resulting from NIH funding.  - PubMed is a free service of the U.S. National Library of Medicine that lets you search millions of journal citations and abstracts in the fields of medicine, nursing, dentistry, veterinary medicine, the health care system, and preclinical sciences.  NIH Clinical Research Trials and You helps people learn more about clinical trials, why they matter, and how to participate. Visitors to the website will find information about the basics of participating in a clinical trial, first-hand stories from actual clinical trial volunteers, explanations from researchers, and links to help you search for a trial or enroll in a research-matching program. ClinicalTrials.gov offers up-to-date information for locating federally and privately supported clinical trials for a wide range of diseases and conditions. NIH RePORTER is an electronic tool that allows users to search a repository of both intramural and extramural NIH-funded research projects from the past 25 years and access publications (since 1985) and patents resulting from NIH funding. PubMed is a free service of the U.S. National Library of Medicine that lets you search millions of journal citations and abstracts in the fields of medicine, nursing, dentistry, veterinary medicine, the health care system, and preclinical sciences.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Psoriasis ?
Answer: Scientists who are working to better understand and treat psoriasis are making headway in several different areas, including the role of T cells, new treatments, psoriasis genes, psoriasis-related conditions, and stress-reduction treatment.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Colorectal Cancer ?
Answer: Researchers continue to look at new ways to treat, diagnose, and prevent colorectal cancer. Many are testing other types of treatments in clinical trials. Advances in Treatments Studies have found that patients who took the drug Avastin, a targeted chemotherapy drug, with their standard chemotherapy treatment had a longer progression-free survival than those who did not take Avastin, but some studies have indicated that Avastin does not extend life. (The generic name for Avastin is bevacizumab.) Scientists are also working on vaccines therapies and monoclonal antibodies that may improve how patients' immune systems respond to colorectal cancers. Monoclonal antibodies are a single type of antibody that researchers make in large amounts in a laboratory. Surgical techniques have reduced the number of patients needing a permanent colostomy. A colostomy is an opening made in the abdomen for waste to pass out of the body before it reaches the rectum. In many cases, the surgeon can reconnect the healthy parts of the colon back together after removing the cancer. This way, the colon can function just as it did before. The PLCO Trial The National Cancer Institute's Prostate, Lung, Colorectal, and Ovarian Cancer Screening Trial, or PLCO Trial, recently provided results about the role of sigmoidoscopy in reducing deaths from colon and rectal cancers. The PLCO trial, involving 148,000 volunteers aged 55 to 74, compared two groups of people over a 10-year period and found that the group that received sigmoidoscopies had fewer deaths from colorectal cancer than those who did not get a sigmoidoscopy. NSAIDs and Polyp Formation Preventing colorectal cancer is a concern of many researchers. Studies have shown that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can keep large-bowel polyps from forming. Bowel polyps can start out benign, or non-cancerous, but can become cancerous. However, the effects that these drugs have on the heart and other parts of the body is of concern, therefore these drugs should only be used for prevention under a doctor's supervision. Genetic Research Genes involved in colorectal cancer continue to be identified and understood. Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer, or HNPCC, is one condition that causes people in a certain family to develop colorectal cancer at a young age. The discovery of four genes involved with this disease has provided crucial clues about the role of DNA repair in colorectal and other cancers. Scientists are continuing to identify genes associated with colon cancers that run in families. Using traditional screening methods on people from families that carry these genes may be another way to identify cancers at an early stage and cut deaths from colorectal cancer. Genetic screening of people at high risk may become more common in the near future Besides looking at genes in families, researchers in the The Cancer Genome Atlas study looked at the genes of actual colon tumors to better understand the contribution that genes make to cancer. By looking at the genetic composition of the tumor, researchers were able to identify new mutations (changes) in the genes that can lead to cancer, including the genes BRAF and EGRF.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Osteoporosis ?
Answer: Scientists are pursuing a wide range of basic and clinical studies on osteoporosis. Significant advances in preventing and treating osteoporosis continue to be made. Such advances are the direct result of research focused on -  determining the causes and consequences of bone loss at the cellular and tissue levels  - assessing risk factors  - developing new strategies to maintain and even enhance bone density and reduce fracture risk  - exploring the roles of such factors as genetics, hormones, calcium, vitamin D, drugs, and exercise on bone mass. determining the causes and consequences of bone loss at the cellular and tissue levels assessing risk factors developing new strategies to maintain and even enhance bone density and reduce fracture risk exploring the roles of such factors as genetics, hormones, calcium, vitamin D, drugs, and exercise on bone mass.  Get more information about ongoing research on osteoporosis from the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS) at NIH.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Stroke ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke sponsors a wide range of basic and clinical research aimed at finding better ways to prevent, diagnose, and treat stroke, and to restore functions lost as a result of stroke. Preventing Secondary Brain Damage Currently, scientists are studying the risk factors for stroke and the process of brain damage that results from stroke. Some brain damage may be secondary, occurring after the initial death of brain cells caused by the lack of blood flow to the brain tissue. This secondary brain damage results from a toxic reaction to the primary damage. Researchers are studying this toxic reaction and ways to prevent secondary injury to the brain. Scientists hope to develop neuroprotective agents, or drugs that protect the brain, to prevent this damage. Animal Studies Scientists are also conducting stroke studies in animals. By studying stroke in animals, researchers hope to get a better picture of what might be happening in human stroke patients. Scientists can also use animal models to test promising therapies for stroke. If a therapy proves helpful for animals, scientists can consider testing the therapy in humans. One promising area of animal research involves hibernation. The dramatic decrease of blood flow to the brain in hibernating animals is so extensive that it would kill a non-hibernating animal. If scientists can discover how animals hibernate without experiencing brain damage, they may discover ways to stop the brain damage associated with decreased blood flow in stroke patients. Another study used a vaccine that interferes with inflammation inside blood vessels to reduce the frequency and severity of strokes in animals with high blood pressure and a genetic predisposition to stroke. Researchers hope that the vaccine will work in humans and could be used to prevent many of the strokes that occur each year in people with high risk factors. Can the Brain Repair Itself? Scientists also are working to develop new and better ways to help the brain repair itself to restore important functions to stroke patients. New advances in imaging and rehabilitation have shown that the brain can compensate for functions lost as a result of stroke. When cells in an area of the brain responsible for a particular function die after a stroke, the patient becomes unable to perform that function. However, the brain's ability to learn and change, called plasticity, and its ability to rewire the connections between its nerve cells means that it can compensate for lost functions. One part of the brain can actually change functions and take up the more important functions of a disabled part. Clinical Trials Clinical trials are scientific studies using volunteers that give researchers a way to test medical advances in humans. Clinical trials test surgical devices and procedures, medications, and rehabilitation therapies. They also test methods to improve lifestyles and mental and social skills. Clinical trials may compare a new medical approach to a standard one that is already available or to a placebo that contains no active ingredients or to no intervention. Some clinical trials compare interventions that are already available to each other. When a new product or approach is being studied, it is not usually known whether it will be helpful, harmful, or no different than available alternatives (including no intervention). The investigators try to determine the safety and usefulness of the intervention by measuring certain outcomes in the participants. Scientists are using clinical trials to - develop new and more effective treatments for stroke  - discover ways to restore blood flow to the brain after stroke  - improve recovery after stroke  - learn more about the risk factors for stroke.  develop new and more effective treatments for stroke discover ways to restore blood flow to the brain after stroke improve recovery after stroke learn more about the risk factors for stroke. Participating in a clinical study contributes to medical knowledge. The results of these studies can make a difference in the care of future patients by providing information about the benefits and risks of therapeutic, preventative, or diagnostic products or interventions. You can find more information about current stroke clinical trials at the NIH Clinical Trials Registry at www.clinicaltrials.gov. You can search for a trial using criteria such as condition or disease, medication or therapy. Each entry includes a trial description, sponsors, purpose, estimated completion date, eligibility criteria, and contact information. You can also call the NIH research study information line at 1-800-411-1222, TTY-1-866-411-1010, or e-mail prpl@mail.cc.nih.gov For more information on stroke, including research sponsored by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, call 1-800-352-9424 or visit the Web site at  www.ninds.nih.gov.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Stroke ?
Answer: The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke sponsors a wide range of basic and clinical research aimed at finding better ways to prevent, diagnose, and treat stroke, and to restore functions lost as a result of stroke. Currently, scientists are conducting stroke studies in animals. By studying stroke in animals, researchers hope to get a better picture of what might be happening in human stroke patients. Scientists can also use animal models to test promising therapies for stroke. If a therapy proves helpful for animals, scientists can consider testing the therapy in humans. Scientists are also working to develop new and better ways to help the brain repair itself to restore important functions to stroke patients. New advances in imaging and rehabilitation have shown that the brain can compensate for functions lost as a result of stroke. Clinical trials are scientific studies using volunteers that give researchers a way to test medical advances in humans. Clinical trials test surgical devices and procedures, medications, and rehabilitation therapies. They also test methods to improve lifestyles and mental and social skills. Scientists are using clinical trials to - develop new and more effective treatments for stroke   - discover ways to restore blood flow to the brain after stroke  - improve recovery after stroke  - learn more about the risk factors for stroke. develop new and more effective treatments for stroke discover ways to restore blood flow to the brain after stroke improve recovery after stroke learn more about the risk factors for stroke. Participating in a clinical study contributes to medical knowledge. The results of these studies can make a difference in the care of future patients by providing information about the benefits and risks of therapeutic, preventative, or diagnostic products or interventions.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Leukemia ?
Answer: Researchers are conducting clinical trials in many parts of the country. Clinical trials test an intervention such as a drug, therapy, medical device, or behavior in many people to see if it is safe and effective. Clinical trials already have led to advances, and researchers continue to search for more effective ways to treat and diagnose leukemia. They are studying various drugs, immunotherapy, targeted therapies, and other types of treatments. They are also studying the effectiveness of using combinations of treatments. Most importantly, researchers are gaining a greater understanding of the genes that are mutated in many types of leukemia and are developing targeted treatments to directly attack the mutations. One prime example is in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) where researchers have identified several genes that predict better or worse outcomes and are working to develop drugs targeted at these genes. Drug Research The drug imatinib (Gleevec) is important in the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia. Imatinib targets an abnormal protein that is present in most leukemia cells. By blocking the abnormal protein, imatinib kills the leukemia cells, but it does not kill normal cells. However, imatinib stops working in some people with leukemia because the cells become resistant. Fortunately, two drugs, dasatinib (Sprycel) and nilotinib (Tasigna), are now used to treat people who stop responding to imatinib. These drugs work against the same abnormal protein targeted by imatinib, but in different ways. Immunotherapy Immunotherapy is a treatment that uses immune cells or antibodies to fight leukemia or stop it from getting worse. The idea is to zero in on leukemia cells so the treatment is less toxic to normal cells. Recently developed immunotherapies are showing real promise in a number of forms of leukemia. Vaccine Research Leukemia vaccines are not vaccines in the way that most people think of them. Unlike most vaccines, which help prevent diseases, leukemia vaccines are used to treat someone who already has cancer. A vaccine introduces a molecule called an antigen into the body. The immune system recognizes the antigen as a foreign invader and attacks it. Gene Therapy Gene therapy -- replacing, manipulating, or supplementing nonfunctional genes with healthy genes -- is being explored for treatment of leukemia. It is being studied as a way to stimulate a patient's immune system to kill leukemia cells and also to interfere with the production of proteins that cause cells to become cancerous. Learn more about ongoing leukemia research.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Leukemia ?
Answer: Clinical trials are research studies in which new treatments -- drugs, diagnostics, procedures, vaccines, and other therapies -- are tested in people to see if they are safe, effective, and better than the current standard of care. Clinical trials often compare a new treatment with a standard treatment to determine which one gives better results. People with leukemia who are interested in taking part in a clinical trial should contact their doctor or go to  www.clinical trials.gov and search "leukemia."

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Parkinson's Disease ?
Answer: In recent years, research on Parkinson's has advanced to the point that halting the progression of the disease, restoring lost function, and even preventing the disease are all considered realistic goals. While the goal of preventing Parkinson's disease may take years to achieve, researchers are making great progress in understanding and treating it. Genetics Research One of the most exciting areas of Parkinson's research is genetics. Studying the genes responsible for inherited cases can help researchers understand both inherited and sporadic cases of the disease. Identifying gene defects can also help researchers -  understand how Parkinson's occurs  -  develop animal models that accurately mimic the death of nerve cells in humans  - identify new approaches to drug therapy  - improve diagnosis.  understand how Parkinson's occurs develop animal models that accurately mimic the death of nerve cells in humans identify new approaches to drug therapy improve diagnosis. Researchers funded by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke are gathering information and DNA samples from hundreds of families with members who have Parkinson's and are conducting large-scale studies to identify gene variants that are associated with increased risk of developing the disease. They are also comparing gene activity in Parkinson's with gene activity in similar diseases such as progressive supranuclear palsy. In addition to identifying new genes for Parkinson's disease, researchers are trying to learn about the function of genes known to be associated with the disease, and about how gene mutations cause disease. Effects of Environmental Toxins Scientists continue to study environmental toxins such as pesticides and herbicides that can cause Parkinson's symptoms in animals. They have found that exposing rodents to the pesticide rotenone and several other agricultural chemicals can cause cellular and behavioral changes that mimic those seen in Parkinson's. Role of Lewy Bodies Other studies focus on how Lewy bodies form and what role they play in Parkinson's disease. Some studies suggest that Lewy bodies are a byproduct of a breakdown that occurs within nerve cells, while others indicate that Lewy bodies are protective, helping neurons "lock away" abnormal molecules that might otherwise be harmful. Identifying Biomarkers Biomarkers for Parkinson's -- measurable characteristics that can reveal whether the disease is developing or progressing -- are another focus of research. Such biomarkers could help doctors detect the disease before symptoms appear and improve diagnosis of the disease. They also would show if medications and other types of therapy have a positive or negative effect on the course of the disease. The National Disorders of Neurological Disorders and Stroke has developed an initiative, the Parkinsons Disease Biomarkers Identification Network (PD-BIN), designed specifically to address these questions and to discover and validate biomarkers for Parkinsons disease. Transcranial Therapies Researchers are conducting many studies of new or improved therapies for Parkinson's disease. Studies are testing whether transcranial electrical polarization (TEP) or transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) can reduce the symptoms of the disease. In TEP, electrodes placed on the scalp are used to generate an electrical current that modifies signals in the brain's cortex. In TMS, an insulated coil of wire on the scalp is used to generate a brief electrical current. Drug Discovery A variety of new drug treatments for Parkinson's disease are in clinical trials. Several MAO-B inhibitors including selegiline, lazabemide, and rasagiline, are being tested to determine if they have neuroprotective effects in people with Parkinsons disease. The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke has launched a broad effort to find drugs to slow the progression of Parkinson's disease, called NET-PD or NIH Exploratory Trials in Parkinson's Disease. The first studies tested several compounds; one of these, creatine, is now being evaluated in a larger clinical trial. The NET-PD investigators are testing a highly purified form of creatine, a nutritional supplement, to find out if it slows the decline seen in people with Parkinson's. Creatine is a widely used dietary supplement thought to improve exercise performance. Cellular energy is stored in a chemical bond between creatine and a phosphate. More recently, NET-PD has initiated pilot studies to test pioglitazone, a drug that has been shown to stimulate mitochondrial function. Because mitochondrial function may be less active in Parkinsons disease, this drug may protect vulnerable dopamine neurons by boosting mitochondrial function. Cell Implantation Another potential approach to treating Parkinson's disease is to implant cells to replace those lost in the disease. Starting in the 1990s, researchers conducting a controlled clinical trial of fetal tissue implants tried to replace lost dopamine-producing nerve cells with healthy ones from fetal tissue in order to improve movement and the response to medications. While many of the implanted cells survived in the brain and produced dopamine, this therapy was associated with only modest functional improvements, mostly in patients under the age of 60. Some of the people who received the transplants developed disabling dyskinesias that could not be relieved by reducing anti-parkinsonian medications. Stem Cells Another type of cell therapy involves stem cells. Some stem cells derived from embryos can develop into any kind of cell in the body, while others, called progenitor cells, are less flexible. Researchers are developing methods to improve the number of dopamine-producing cells that can be grown from embryonic stem cells in culture. Other researchers are also exploring whether stem cells from adult brains might be useful in treating Parkinson's disease. Recent studies suggest that some adult cells from skin can be reprogrammed to an embryonic-like state, resulting in induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC) that may someday be used for treatment of Parkinsons. In addition, development and characterization of cells from people with sporadic or inherited Parkinsons may reveal information about cellular mechanisms of disease and identify targets for drug development. Gene Therapy A number of early clinical trials are now underway to test whether gene therapy can improve Parkinson's disease. Genes which are found to improve cellular function in models of Parkinson's are inserted into modified viruses. The genetically engineered viruses are then injected into the brains of people with Parkinson's disease. Clinical studies have focused on the therapeutic potential of neurotrophic factors, including GDNF and neurturin, and enzymes that produce dopamine. These trials will test whether the viruses, by lending to the production of the protective gene product, improve symptoms of Parkinson's over time. The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke also supports the Morris K. Udall Centers of Excellence for Parkinson's Disease Research program . These Centers, located across the USA, study cellular mechanisms underlying Parkinsons disease, identify and characterize disease-associated genes, and discover and develop potential therapeutic targets. The Centers' multidisciplinary research environment allows scientists to take advantage of new discoveries in the basic, translational and clinical sciences that could lead to clinical advances for Parkinsons disease.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Parkinson's Disease ?
Answer: Genetics is one of the most exciting areas of Parkinson's disease research. Studying the genes responsible for inherited cases can help researchers understand both inherited and sporadic cases of the disease. Sporadic means the disease occurs randomly and does not seem to run in families. Identifying gene defects can also help researchers - understand how the disease occurs   - develop animal models that accurately mimic the death of nerve cells in human Parkinson's disease  - identify new drug targets   - improve diagnosis. understand how the disease occurs develop animal models that accurately mimic the death of nerve cells in human Parkinson's disease identify new drug targets improve diagnosis.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Problems with Smell ?
Answer: The National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders (NIDCD) supports basic and clinical investigations of smell and taste disorders at its laboratories in Bethesda, Md. and at universities and chemosensory research centers across the country. These chemosensory scientists are exploring how to - promote the regeneration of sensory nerve cells   - understand the effects of the environment (such as gasoline fumes, chemicals, and extremes of humidity and temperature) on smell and taste  - prevent the effects of aging on smell and taste   - develop new diagnostic tests for taste and smell disorders   - understand associations between smell disorders and changes in diet and food preferences in the elderly or among people with chronic illnesses.  promote the regeneration of sensory nerve cells understand the effects of the environment (such as gasoline fumes, chemicals, and extremes of humidity and temperature) on smell and taste prevent the effects of aging on smell and taste develop new diagnostic tests for taste and smell disorders understand associations between smell disorders and changes in diet and food preferences in the elderly or among people with chronic illnesses.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Skin Cancer ?
Answer: Many Areas of Research Scientists are constantly searching for new ways to detect skin cancer, assess risk, and predict patient outcomes. They are interested in finding new treatments and new ways to deliver drugs and radiation. As scientists get a better understanding of what causes skin cancer and what genetic and environmental factors play a role, they should be able to design new drugs to hinder the development of cancer. Clinical trials are designed to answer important questions and to find out whether new approaches are safe and effective. Research has already led to advances, such as photodynamic therapy, and researchers continue to search for better ways to prevent and treat skin cancer. Researching Techniques to Deliver Drugs One area that scientists are working on is development of techniques for delivering chemotherapy drugs directly to the area around the tumor, rather than sending the chemotherapy through the entire body. One of these techniques is called hyperthermic isolated limb perfusion. Hyperthermic isolated limb perfusion sends a warm solution containing anti-cancer drugs directly to the arm or leg in which the cancer is located. A tourniquet is used to temporarily cut off the blood flow while the chemotherapy drugs are injected directly into the limb. This allows the patient to receive a high dose of drugs only in the area where the cancer occurred. Genetic Research For basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma, researchers are studying gene changes that may be risk factors for the disease. They also are comparing combinations of biological therapy and surgery to treat basal cell cancer. Discovering links between inherited genes, environmental factors, and skin cancer is another area of research that might provide scientists with insight they can use to screen people to determine their risk for the disease. Recently, scientists at the National Cancer Institute (NCI) found one genetic link that dramatically increases the chance of developing melanoma. Research on Melanoma Treatments Other studies are currently exploring new treatment options for melanoma. One recent study discovered a protein that may help block the development and spread of melanoma. This discovery could lead to a new treatment for melanoma patients in the future. Several other studies are examining the potential for using vaccines to treat melanoma. An Advance in Treating Melanoma In June of 2011, an important advance in treating melanoma was announced at an annual cancer meeting. A drug called ipilimumab was approved for treating the disease, and it works differently than traditional chemotherapy. It uses immunotherapy to help the immune system recognize and reject cancer cells. When its successful, immunotherapy can lead to complete reversal of even advanced disease. Some patients with stage IV metastatic disease who were treated in early immunotherapy trials after other therapies were unsuccessful are still in complete remission more than 20 years later. Vaccine Research Traditional vaccines are designed to prevent diseases in healthy people by teaching the body to recognize and attack a virus or bacteria it may encounter in the future. Cancer vaccines, however, are given to people who already have cancer. These vaccines stimulate the immune system to fight against cancer by stopping its growth, shrinking a tumor, or killing the cancer cells that were not killed by other forms of treatment. Developing a vaccine against a tumor such as melanoma is more complicated than developing a vaccine to fight a virus. Clinical trials are in progress at the National Cancer Institute and other institutions to test the effectiveness of treating stage III or stage IV melanoma patients with vaccines.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Skin Cancer ?
Answer: The National Cancer Institute has developed a comprehensive online cancer database called the Physician Data Query (PDQ) to present evidence from the most recent research on melanoma and other skin cancers. Click here to see the PDQ. A window will open. Click the "x" in the upper right hand corner of the "PDQ" window to return here.

Question: what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Anxiety Disorders ?
Answer: Clinical trials are part of clinical research and at the heart of all treatment advances. Clinical trials look at new ways to prevent, detect, or treat disease. The National Institute of Mental Health at NIH supports research studies on mental health and disorders. To learn how clinical trials work, see  Participating in Clinical Trials. To see NIH-funded studies currently recruiting participants in anxiety disorders, visit www.ClinicalTrials.gov  and type in "anxiety disorders." Clinical Trials.gov is the NIH/National Library of Medicine's registry of federally and privately funded clinical trials for all disease. To see personal stories of people who have volunteered for clinical trials, visit  NIH Clinical Trials Research and You.

