Question: Who is at risk for Lymphocytic Choriomeningitis (LCM)? ?
Answer: LCMV infections can occur after exposure to fresh urine, droppings, saliva, or nesting materials from infected rodents.  Transmission may also occur when these materials are directly introduced into broken skin, the nose, the eyes, or the mouth, or presumably, via the bite of an infected rodent. Person-to-person transmission has not been reported, with the exception of vertical transmission from infected mother to fetus, and rarely, through organ transplantation.

Question: Who is at risk for Lymphocytic Choriomeningitis (LCM)? ?
Answer: Individuals of all ages who come into contact with urine, feces, saliva, or blood of wild mice are potentially at risk for infection. Owners of pet mice or hamsters may be at risk for infection if these animals originate from colonies that were contaminated with LCMV, or if their animals are infected from other wild mice. Human fetuses are at risk of acquiring infection vertically from an infected mother. 
                
Laboratory workers who work with the virus or handle infected animals are also at risk. However, this risk can be minimized by utilizing animals from sources that regularly test for the virus, wearing proper protective laboratory gear, and following appropriate safety precautions.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Cysticercosis? ?
Answer: Cysticercosis is an infection caused by the larvae of the tapeworm, Taenia solium. A person with an adult tapeworm, which lives in the person’s gut, sheds eggs in the stool.  The infection with the adult tapeworm is called taeniasis.  A pig then eats the eggs in the stool.  The eggs develop into larvae inside the pig and form cysts (called cysticerci) in the pig's muscles or other tissues. The infection with the cysts is called cysticercosis. Humans who eat undercooked or raw infected pork swallow the cysts in the meat. The larvae then come out of their cysts in the human gut and develop into adult tapeworms, completing the cycle.
    
People get cysticercosis when they swallow eggs that are excreted in the stool of people with the adult tapeworm. This may happen when people
    
     - Drink water or eat food contaminated with tapeworm eggs
     - Put contaminated fingers in their mouth
    
    
Cysticercosis is not spread by eating undercooked meat. However, people get infected with tapeworms (taeniasis) by eating undercooked infected pork. People who have tapeworm infections can infect themselves with the eggs and develop cysticercosis (this is called autoinfection). They can also infect other people if they have poor hygiene and contaminate food or water that other people swallow. People who live with someone who has a tapeworm infection in their intestines have a much higher risk of getting cysticercosis than other people.
    
Human cysticercosis is found worldwide, especially in areas where pig cysticercosis is common. Both taeniasis and cysticercosis are most often found in rural areas of developing countries with poor sanitation, where pigs roam freely and eat human feces. Taeniasis and cysticercosis are rare among persons who live in countries where pigs are not raised and in countries where pigs do not have contact with human feces. Although uncommon, cysticercosis can occur in people who have never traveled outside of the United States if they are exposed to tapeworm eggs.
    
More on: Taeniasis

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Trichuriasis (also known as Whipworm Infection)? ?
Answer: Whipworm is a soil-transmitted helminth (STH) and is the third most common roundworm of humans. Whipworm causes an infection called trichuriasis and often occurs in areas where human feces is used as fertilizer or where defecation onto soil happens. The worms are spread from person to person by fecal-oral transmission or through feces-contaminated food.
    Geographic Distribution
Worldwide, infection occurs more frequently in areas with tropical weather and poor sanitation practices, and among children. In 2002, the estimated number of persons infected with whipworm was 1 billion. Trichuriasis also occurs in the southern United States.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Schistosomiasis? ?
Answer: Schistosomiasis is an important cause of disease in many parts of the world, most commonly in places with poor sanitation. School-age children who live in these areas are often most at risk because they tend to spend time swimming or bathing in water containing infectious cercariae.
If you live in, or travel to, areas where schistosomiasis is found and are exposed to contaminated freshwater, you are at risk.
   
Areas where human schistosomiasis is found include:
   
    - Schistosoma mansoni 
     
      - distributed throughout Africa: There is risk of infection in freshwater in southern and sub-Saharan Africa–including the great lakes and rivers as well as smaller bodies of water. Transmission also occurs in the Nile River valley in Sudan and Egypt
      - South America: including Brazil, Suriname, Venezuela
      - Caribbean (risk is low): Dominican Republic, Guadeloupe, Martinique, and Saint Lucia.
     
    - S. haematobium 
     
      - distributed throughout Africa: There is risk of infection in freshwater in southern and sub-Saharan Africa–including the great lakes and rivers as well as smaller bodies of water. Transmission also occurs in the Nile River valley in Egypt and the Mahgreb region of North Africa.
      - found in areas of the Middle East
     
    - S. japonicum 
     
      - found in Indonesia and parts of China and Southeast Asia
     
    - S. mekongi 
     
      - found in Cambodia and Laos
     
    - S. intercalatum 
     
      - found in parts of Central and West Africa.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Lice - Head Lice? ?
Answer: In the United States, infestation with head lice (Pediculus humanus capitis) is most common among preschool- and elementary school-age children and their household members and caretakers. Head lice are not known to transmit disease; however, secondary bacterial infection of the skin resulting from scratching can occur with any lice infestation.
    
Getting head lice is not related to cleanliness of the person or his or her environment.
    
Head lice are mainly spread by direct contact with the hair of an infested person. The most common way to get head lice is by head-to-head contact with a person who already has head lice. Such contact can be common among children during play at:
    
     - school,
     - home, and
     - elsewhere (e.g., sports activities, playgrounds, camp, and slumber parties).
    
    
Uncommonly, transmission may occur by:
    
     - wearing clothing, such as hats, scarves, coats, sports uniforms, or hair ribbons worn by an infested person;
     - using infested combs, brushes or towels; or
     - lying on a bed, couch, pillow, carpet, or stuffed animal that has recently been in contact with an infested person.
    
    
Reliable data on how many people get head lice each year in the United States are not available; however, an estimated 6 million to 12 million infestations occur each year in the United States among children 3 to 11 years of age. Some studies suggest that girls get head lice more often than boys, probably due to more frequent head-to-head contact.
    
In the United States, infestation with head lice is much less common among African-Americans than among persons of other races. The head louse found most frequently in the United States may have claws that are better adapted for grasping the shape and width of some types of hair but not others.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Lice - Body Lice? ?
Answer: Body lice infestation is found worldwide but generally is limited to persons who live under conditions of crowding and poor hygiene who do not have access to regular bathing and changes of clean clothes, such as:
    
     - the homeless,
     - refugees,
     - survivors of war or natural disasters.
    
    
Infestations can spread rapidly under such conditions. Body lice infestation can occur in people of all races.
    
Body lice are spread through direct contact with a person who has body lice or through contact with articles such as clothing, beds, bed linens, or towels that have been in contact with an infested person. However, in the United States, actual infestation with body lice tends to be occur only in homeless, transient persons who do not have access to regular bathing and changes of clean clothes.
    
Body lice can transmit disease. Epidemics of typhus and louse-borne relapsing fever have been caused by body lice (typically in areas where climate, poverty, and social customs or war and social upheaval prevent regular changes and laundering of clothing).

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Toxocariasis (also known as Roundworm Infection)? ?
Answer: Infected dogs and cats shed Toxocara eggs in their feces into the environment. Once in the environment, it takes 2 to 4 weeks for Toxocara larvae to develop and for the eggs to become infectious. Humans or other animals can be infected by accidentally ingesting Toxocara eggs. For example, humans can become infected if they work with dirt and accidentally ingest dirt containing Toxocara eggs. Although rare, people can be infected by eating undercooked or raw meat from an infected animal such as a lamb or rabbit. Because dogs and cats are frequently found where people live, there may be large numbers of infected eggs in the environment. Once in the body, the Toxocara eggs hatch and roundworm larvae can travel in the bloodstream to different parts of the body, including the liver, heart, lungs, brain, muscles, or eyes. Most infected people do not have any symptoms. However, in some people, the Toxocara larvae can cause damage to these tissues and organs. The symptoms of toxocariasis, the disease caused by these migrating larvae, include fever, coughing, inflammation of the liver, or eye problems.
    
A U.S. study in 1996 showed that 30% of dogs younger than 6 months deposit Toxocara eggs in their feces; other studies have shown that almost all puppies are born already infected with Toxocara canis. Research also suggests that 25% of all cats are infected with Toxocara cati. Infection rates are higher for dogs and cats that are left outside for more time and allowed to eat other animals. In humans, it has been found that almost 14% of the U.S. population has been infected with Toxocara. Globally, toxocariasis is found in many countries, and prevalence rates can reach as high as 40% or more in parts of the world. There are several factors that have been associated with higher rates of infection with Toxocara. People are more likely to be infected with Toxocara if they own a dog. Children and adolescents under the age of 20 are more likely to test positive for Toxocara infection. This may be because children are more likely to eat dirt and play in outdoor environments, such as sandboxes, where dog and cat feces can be found. This infection is more common in people living in poverty. Geographic location plays a role as well, because Toxocara is more prevalent in hot, humid regions where eggs are kept viable in the soil.

Question: Who is at risk for Acanthamoeba - Granulomatous Amebic Encephalitis (GAE); Keratitis? ?
Answer: Acanthamoeba keratitis
  
   
Acanthamoeba keratitis is a rare disease that can affect anyone, but is most common in individuals who wear contact lenses. In the United States, an estimated 85% of cases occur in contact lens users. The incidence of the disease in developed countries is approximately one to 33 cases per million contact lens wearers.
   
For people who wear contact lenses, certain practices can increase the risk of getting Acanthamoeba keratitis:
   
    - Storing and handling lenses improperly
    - Disinfecting lenses improperly (such as using tap water or topping off solutions when cleaning the lenses or lens case)
    - Swimming, using a hot tub, or showering while wearing lenses
    - Coming into contact with contaminated water
    - Having a history of trauma to the cornea
   
   
Contact lens wearers who practice proper lens care and non-contact lens wearers can still develop the infection. For additional information on contact lens care and prevention of Acanthamoeba keratitis visit CDC’s web page on Prevention and Control.
   
There have been no reports of Acanthamoeba keratitis being spread from one person to another.
   Granulomatous Amebic Encephalitis (GAE)
   
Granulomatous Amebic Encephalitis (GAE) and disseminated infection are very rare forms of Acanthamoeba infection and primarily affect people with compromised immune systems. While unusual, disseminated infection can also affect healthy children and adults. Conditions that may increase a patient’s risk for GAE and disseminated infection include:
   
    - AIDS
    - Organ/Tissue transplant
    - Steroids or excessive use of antibiotics
    - Diabetes Mellitus
    - Cancer
    - Disorders in which white blood cells in the lymphatic tissue are over-produced or abnormal
    - Disorders in which blood cells or blood clotting mechanisms do not function properly or are abnormal
    - Liver cirrhosis
    - Lupus

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Scabies? ?
Answer: Transmission
    
Human scabies is caused by an infestation of the skin by the human itch mite (Sarcoptes scabiei var. hominis). The adult female scabies mites burrow into the upper layer of the skin (epidermis) where they live and deposit their eggs. The microscopic scabies mite almost always is passed by direct, prolonged, skin-to-skin contact with a person who already is infested. An infested person can spread scabies even if he or she has no symptoms. Humans are the source of infestation; animals do not spread human scabies.
    Persons At Risk
    
Scabies can be passed easily by an infested person to his or her household members and sexual partners. Scabies in adults frequently is sexually acquired.
    
Scabies is a common condition found worldwide; it affects people of all races and social classes. Scabies can spread easily under crowded conditions where close body and skin contact is common. Institutions such as nursing homes, extended-care facilities, and prisons are often sites of scabies outbreaks. Child care facilities also are a common site of scabies infestations.
    Crusted (Norwegian) Scabies
    
Some immunocompromised, elderly, disabled, or debilitated persons are at risk for a severe form of scabies called crusted, or Norwegian, scabies. Persons with crusted scabies have thick crusts of skin that contain large numbers of scabies mites and eggs. The mites in crusted scabies are not more virulent than in non-crusted scabies; however, they are much more numerous (up to 2 million per patient). Because they are infested with such large numbers of mites, persons with crusted scabies are very contagious to other persons. In addition to spreading scabies through brief direct skin-to-skin contact, persons with crusted scabies can transmit scabies indirectly by shedding mites that contaminate items such as their clothing, bedding, and furniture. Persons with crusted scabies should receive quick and aggressive medical treatment for their infestation to prevent outbreaks of scabies.

Question: Who is at risk for Alkhurma Hemorrhagic Fever (AHF)? ?
Answer: Transmission of AHFV is not well understood. AHFV is a zoonotic virus, and its described tick hosts (the soft tick Ornithodoros savignyi and the hard tick Hyalomma dromedari) are widely distributed. People can become infected through a tick bite or when crushing infected ticks. Epidemiologic studies indicate that contact with domestic animals or livestock may increase the risk of human infection. No human-to-human transmission of AHF has been documented. 
 
Although livestock animals may provide blood meals for ticks, it is thought that they play a minor role in transmitting AHFV to humans. No transmission through non-pasteurized milk has been described, although other tick-borne flaviviruses have been transmitted to humans through this route.

Question: Who is at risk for Alkhurma Hemorrhagic Fever (AHF)? ?
Answer: Contact with  livestock with tick exposure are risk factors for humans, as is contact with infected ticks, whether through crushing the infected tick with unprotected fingers or by a bite from an infected tick. Slaughtering of animals which may acutely but asymptomatically infected may also be a risk factor, as it is possible that infected animals develop a viremia without obvious clinical signs.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Taeniasis? ?
Answer: The tapeworms that cause taeniasis (Taenia saginata, T. solium, and T. asiatica) are found worldwide. Eating raw or undercooked beef or pork is the primary risk factor for acquiring taeniasis. Persons who don't eat raw or undercooked beef or pork are not likely to get taeniasis.
    
Infections with T. saginata occur wherever contaminated raw beef is eaten, particularly in Eastern Europe, Russia, eastern Africa and Latin America. Taeniasis due to T. saginata is rare in the United States, except in places where cattle and people are concentrated and sanitation is poor, such as around feed lots when cattle can be exposed to human feces. Tapeworm infections due to T. solium are more prevalent in under-developed communities with poor sanitation and where people eat raw or undercooked pork. Higher rates of illness have been seen in people in Latin America, Eastern Europe, sub-Saharan Africa, India, and Asia. Taenia solium taeniasis is seen in the United States, typically among Latin American immigrants. Taenia asiatica is limited to Asia and is seen mostly in the Republic of Korea, China, Taiwan, Indonesia, and Thailand.
    
A disease called cysticercosis can occur when T. solium tapeworm eggs are ingested. For example, people with poor hygiene who have taeniasis -- with or without symptoms -- will shed tapeworm eggs in their feces and might accidentally contaminate their environment. This can lead to transmission of cysticercosis to themselves or others.
    
More on: Cysticercosis

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Baylisascaris infection? ?
Answer: Raccoons are the primary, or definitive, host of Baylisascaris procyonis, a roundworm. Raccoons become infected with Baylisascaris in one of two ways:
    
     - Young raccoons become infected by eating eggs during foraging, feeding, and grooming.
     - Adult raccoons acquire the infection by eating rodents, rabbits, and birds infected with the larvae of Baylisascaris.
    
    
Infected raccoons have been found throughout the United States, mainly in the Midwest, Northeast, Middle Atlantic, and West Coast.
    
Raccoons are peridomestic animals, which means they live in or around areas where people live. Roundworm eggs are passed in the feces of infected raccoons. Raccoons defecate in communal sites, called latrines. Raccoon latrines are often found at bases of trees, unsealed attics, or on flat surfaces such as logs, tree stumps, rocks, decks, and rooftops. As more raccoons move into populated areas, the number and density of their latrines will increase.
    
While raccoons are the roundworm's primary host, other types of animals can become infected. Birds and small mammals, such as rodents and rabbits, are susceptible to the parasite. Unlike raccoons, these animals sometimes show signs of infection, such as muscle spasms, tremors, and progressive weakness; infection can lead to death. Predator animals, including dogs, may become infected by eating an animal that has been infected with Baylisascaris. In some dogs, Baylisascaris may develop to adult worms and pass eggs in the dogs' feces.
    
The worms develop to maturity in the raccoon intestine, where they produce millions of eggs that are passed in the feces. Eggs that are excreted by raccoons are not immediately infectious. These eggs must develop in the environment for 2 to 4 weeks, after which the eggs are able to cause infection. The eggs are resistant to most environmental conditions and with adequate moisture, can survive for years.
    
     
    
    
Humans become infected by ingesting embryonated (fertile) eggs. Anyone who is exposed to environments where raccoons frequent is potentially at risk. Young children or developmentally disabled persons are at highest risk for infection as they may be more likely to put contaminated fingers, soil, or objects into their mouths.
    
Hunters, trappers, taxidermists, and wildlife handlers may also be at increased risk if they have contact with raccoons or raccoon habitats.
    
Fewer than 25 cases of Baylisascaris disease have been documented in the United States. However, it is possible that some cases are incorrectly diagnosed as other infections or go undiagnosed. Cases that are diagnosed tend to be severe.
    
Cases have been reported in California, Illinois, Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, New York, Oregon, and Pennsylvania. As of 2012, there were 16 published human neurological cases in the US; six of the infected persons died.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Babesiosis? ?
Answer: People can get infected with Babesia parasites in several ways:
    
     - The main way is through the bite of an infected tick—during outdoor activities in areas where babesiosis is found (see below).
     - A less common way is by getting a transfusion from a blood donor who has a Babesia infection but does not have any symptoms. (No tests have been licensed yet for screening blood donors for Babesia.)
     - Rare cases of congenital transmission—from an infected mother to her baby (during pregnancy or delivery)—have been reported.
    
    
Babesia parasites are not transmitted from person-to-person like the flu or the common cold.
    
Many different species (types) of Babesia parasites have been found in animals, only a few of which have been found in people. Babesia microti—which usually infects white-footed mice and other small mammals—is the main species that has been found in people in the United States. Occasional (sporadic) cases of babesiosis caused by other Babesia species have been detected.
    
     
    
    
Babesia microti is transmitted in nature by Ixodes scapularis ticks (also called blacklegged ticks or deer ticks).
    
     - Tickborne transmission primarily occurs in the Northeast and upper Midwest, especially in parts of New England, New York state, New Jersey, Wisconsin, and Minnesota.
     - The parasite typically is spread by the young nymph stage of the tick, which is most apt to be found (seeking or "questing" for a blood meal) during warm months (spring and summer), in areas with woods, brush, or grass.
     - Infected people might not recall a tick bite because I. scapularis nymphs are very small (about the size of a poppy seed).

Question: what is the risk for my pet for Rabies ?
Answer: Any animal bitten or scratched by either a wild, carnivorous mammal or a bat that is not available for testing should be regarded as having been exposed to rabies.
  
Unvaccinated dogs, cats, and ferrets exposed to a rabid animal should be euthanized immediately. If the owner is unwilling to have this done, the animal should be placed in strict isolation for 6 months and vaccinated 1 month before being released.
  
Animals with expired vaccinations need to be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Dogs and cats that are currently vaccinated are kept under observation for 45 days.
  
Small mammals such as squirrels, rats, mice, hamsters, guinea pigs, gerbils, chipmunks, rabbits, and hares are almost never found to be infected with rabies and have not been known to cause rabies among humans in the United States. Bites by these animals are usually not considered a risk of rabies unless the animal was sick or behaving in any unusual manner and rabies is widespread in your area.
  
However, from 1985 through 1994, woodchucks accounted for 86% of the 368 cases of rabies among rodents reported to CDC. Woodchucks or groundhogs (Marmota monax) are the only rodents that may be frequently submitted to state health department because of a suspicion of rabies. In all cases involving rodents, the state or local health department should be consulted before a decision is made to initiate postexposure prophylaxis (PEP).
  Is there rabies in my area?
  
Each state collects specific information about rabies, and is the best source for information on rabies in your area. In addition, the CDC publishes rabies surveillance data every year for the United States. The report, entitled Rabies Surveillance in the United States, contains information about the number of cases of rabies reported to CDC during the year, the animals reported rabid, maps showing where cases were reported for wild and domestic animals, and distribution maps showing outbreaks of rabies associated with specific animals.

Question: Who is at risk for Marburg hemorrhagic fever (Marburg HF)? ?
Answer: It is unknown how Marburg virus first transmits from its animal host to humans; however, for the 2 cases in tourists visiting Uganda in 2008, unprotected contact with infected bat feces or aerosols are the most likely routes of infection. 
  
After this initial crossover of virus from host animal to humans, transmission occurs through person-to-person contact. This may happen in several ways: direct contact to droplets of body fluids from infected persons, or contact with equipment and other objects contaminated with infectious blood or tissues. 
  
In previous outbreaks, persons who have handled infected non-human primates or have come in direct contact with their fluids or cell cultures have become infected. Spread of the virus between humans has occurred in close environments and direct contacts. A common example is through caregivers in the home or in a hospital (nosocomial transmission).

Question: Who is at risk for Marburg hemorrhagic fever (Marburg HF)? ?
Answer: People who have close contact with African fruit bats, humans patients, or non-human primates infected with Marburg virus are at risk. 
                
Historically, the people at highest risk include family members and hospital staff who care for patients infected with Marburg virus and have not used proper barrier nursing techniques. Particular occupations, such as veterinarians and laboratory or quarantine facility workers who handle non-human primates from Africa, may also be at increased risk of exposure to Marburg virus. 
                
Exposure risk can be higher for travelers visiting endemic regions in Africa, including Uganda and other parts of central Africa, and have contact with fruit bats, or enter caves or mines inhabited by fruit bats.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Leishmaniasis? ?
Answer: Leishmaniasis is found in people in focal areas of more than 90 countries in the tropics, subtropics, and southern Europe. The ecologic settings range from rain forests to deserts. Leishmaniasis usually is more common in rural than in urban areas, but it is found in the outskirts of some cities. Climate and other environmental changes have the potential to expand the geographic range of the sand fly vectors and the areas in the world where leishmaniasis is found.
    
Leishmaniasis is found on every continent except Australia and Antarctica.
    
     - In the Old World (the Eastern Hemisphere), leishmaniasis is found in some parts of Asia, the Middle East, Africa (particularly in the tropical region and North Africa, with some cases elsewhere), and southern Europe. It is not found in Australia or the Pacific islands.
     - In the New World (the Western Hemisphere), it is found in some parts of Mexico, Central America, and South America. It is not found in Chile or Uruguay. Occasional cases of cutaneous leishmaniasis have been acquired in Texas and Oklahoma.
    
    
The number of new cases per year is not known with certainty. For cutaneous leishmaniasis, estimates of the number of cases range from approximately 0.7 million (700,000) to 1.2 million (1,200,000). For visceral leishmaniasis, estimates of the number of cases range from approximately 0.2 million (200,000) to 0.4 million (400,000). The cases of leishmaniasis evaluated in the United States reflect travel and immigration patterns. For example, many of the cases of cutaneous leishmaniasis in U.S. civilian travelers have been acquired in common tourist destinations in Latin America, such as in Costa Rica.
    
Overall, infection in people is caused by more than 20 species (types) of Leishmania parasites, which are spread by about 30 species of phlebotomine sand flies; particular species of the parasite are spread by particular sand flies. The sand fly vectors generally are the most active during twilight, evening, and night-time hours (from dusk to dawn).
    
In many geographic areas where leishmaniasis is found in people, infected people are not needed to maintain the transmission cycle of the parasite in nature; infected animals (such as rodents or dogs), along with sand flies, maintain the cycle. However, in some parts of the world, infected people are needed to maintain the cycle; this type of transmission (human—sand fly—human) is called anthroponotic. In areas with anthroponotic transmission, effective treatment of individual patients can help control the spread of the parasite.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Toxoplasmosis (Toxoplasma infection)? ?
Answer: Toxoplasmosis is caused by the protozoan parasite Toxoplasma gondii. In the United States it is estimated that 22.5% of the population 12 years and older have been infected with Toxoplasma. In various places throughout the world, it has been shown that up to 95% of some populations have been infected with Toxoplasma. Infection is often highest in areas of the world that have hot, humid climates and lower altitudes. 
    
Toxoplasmosis is not passed from person-to-person, except in instances of mother-to-child (congenital) transmission and blood transfusion or organ transplantation. People typically become infected by three principal routes of transmission. 
         
     
     
       
      
     
    
      
    Foodborne transmission 
    
The tissue form of the parasite (a microscopic cyst consisting of bradyzoites) can be transmitted to humans by food. People become infected by: 
     
     - Eating undercooked, contaminated meat (especially pork, lamb, and venison) 
     - Accidental ingestion of undercooked, contaminated meat after handling it and not washing hands thoroughly (Toxoplasma cannot be absorbed through intact skin) 
     - Eating food that was contaminated by knives, utensils, cutting boards, or other foods that had contact with raw, contaminated meat 
     
    
      
    Animal-to-human (zoonotic) transmission 
    
Cats play an important role in the spread of toxoplasmosis. They become infected by eating infected rodents, birds, or other small animals. The parasite is then passed in the cat's feces in an oocyst form, which is microscopic. 
    
Kittens and cats can shed millions of oocysts in their feces for as long as 3 weeks after infection. Mature cats are less likely to shed Toxoplasma if they have been previously infected. A Toxoplasma-infected cat that is shedding the parasite in its feces contaminates the litter box. If the cat is allowed outside, it can contaminate the soil or water in the environment as well. 
     
       
      
     
    
People can accidentally swallow the oocyst form of the parasite. People can be infected by: 
     
     - Accidental ingestion of oocysts after cleaning a cat's litter box when the cat has shed Toxoplasma in its feces 
     - Accidental ingestion of oocysts after touching or ingesting anything that has come into contact with a cat's feces that contain Toxoplasma 
     - Accidental ingestion of oocysts in contaminated soil (e.g., not washing hands after gardening or eating unwashed fruits or vegetables from a garden) 
     - Drinking water contaminated with the Toxoplasma parasite 
     
    
      
    Mother-to-child (congenital) transmission 
    
A woman who is newly infected with Toxoplasma during pregnancy can pass the infection to her unborn child (congenital infection). The woman may not have symptoms, but there can be severe consequences for the unborn child, such as diseases of the nervous system and eyes. 
    
      
    Rare instances of transmission 
    
Organ transplant recipients can become infected by receiving an organ from a Toxoplasma-positive donor. Rarely, people can also become infected by receiving infected blood via transfusion. Laboratory workers who handle infected blood can also acquire infection through accidental inoculation.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Hookworm? ?
Answer: Hookworm is a soil-transmitted helminth (STH) and is one of the most common roundworm of humans. Infection is caused by the nematode parasites Necator americanus and Ancylostoma duodenale. Hookworm infections often occur in areas where human feces are used as fertilizer or where defecation onto soil happens.
    Geographic Distribution
    
The geographic distributions of the hookworm species that are intestinal parasites in human, Ancylostoma duodenale and Necator americanus, are worldwide in areas with warm, moist climates and are widely overlapping. Necator americanus was widespread in the Southeastern United States until the early 20th century.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - American Trypanosomiasis (also known as Chagas Disease)? ?
Answer: Chagas disease, or American trypanosomiasis, is caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi. Infection is most commonly acquired through contact with the feces of an infected triatomine bug (or "kissing bug"), a blood-sucking insect that feeds on humans and animals.
    
Infection can also occur from:
    
     - mother-to-baby (congenital),
     - contaminated blood products (transfusions),
     - an organ transplanted from an infected donor,
     - laboratory accident, or
     - contaminated food or drink (rare)
    
    
Chagas disease is endemic throughout much of Mexico, Central America, and South America where an estimated 8 million people are infected. The triatomine bug thrives under poor housing conditions (for example, mud walls, thatched roofs), so in endemic countries, people living in rural areas are at greatest risk for acquiring infection. Public health efforts aimed at preventing transmission have decreased the number of newly infected people and completely halted vectorborne transmission in some areas. Infection acquired from blood products, organ transplantation, or congenital transmission continues to pose a threat.
    
By applying published seroprevalence figures to immigrant populations, CDC estimates that more than 300,000 persons with Trypanosoma cruzi infection live in the United States. Most people with Chagas disease in the United States acquired their infections in endemic countries. Although there are triatomine bugs in the U.S. , only rare vectorborne cases of Chagas disease have been documented.
    
More on: Triatomine Bugs

Question: Who is at risk for Nocardiosis? ?
Answer: The bacteria that cause nocardiosis are commonly found in soil and water.
    
You could become sick with nocardiosis if:
    
     - You inhale (breathe in) the bacteria
     - Bacteria gets into an open wound or cut
    
    
In rare cases, infection can occur during surgical procedures.
    
Fortunately, nocardiosis is not spread person to person, so being around someone who has the disease will not make you sick.

Question: Who is at risk for Nocardiosis? ?
Answer: People with very weak immune (body defense) systems are at risk for getting nocardiosis. 
    
Several diseases and circumstances can cause the immune system to be weak. These include:
    
     - Diabetes
     - Cancer
     - HIV/AIDS
     - Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (an illness that causes the air sacs of the lungs to become plugged)
     - Connective tissue disorder (a disease that affects the tissue that connects and supports different parts of the body)
     - Alcoholism
     - Having a bone marrow or solid organ transplant
     - Taking high doses of drugs called corticosteroids
    
    
In the United States, it has been estimated that 500-1,000 new cases of nocardiosis infection occur every year. Approximately 60% of nocardiosis cases are associated with pre-existing immune compromise. 
    
In addition, men have a greater risk of getting the infection than women; for every female who gets sick with nocardiosis, there are about 3 males who get the disease.

Question: Who is at risk for Chapare Hemorrhagic Fever (CHHF)? ?
Answer: Like all arenaviruses, Chapare virus has a rodent host as its reservoir. Humans can contract CHHF through contact with an infected rodent. Contact can be direct or through inhalation of aerosolized Chapare virus from the urine or feces of infected rodents. 
 
Although arenaviruses have been isolated from insects, neither they nor any other intermediary host appear to spread CHHF. 
 
Person-to-person transmission of arenaviruses through aerosolization, although possible, is rare. From the only observed cluster of cases of CHHF, there was no evidence of person-to-person transmission. 
 
Transmission, if it can occur with CHHF, is most likely the result of direct contact with an infected person.

Question: Who is at risk for Chapare Hemorrhagic Fever (CHHF)? ?
Answer: CHHF occurs in the Cochabamba region of Bolivia. 
Field workers 
                
Field workers are at greatest risk because of increased human contact with the reservoir rodent population. Sexual partners of field workers may be at greater risk as well. Laboratory infections have been frequently described with Arenaviruses and Chapare virus can certainly be transmitted to laboratory workers during manipulation of the virus especially during experimental infections of rodents.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Lymphatic Filariasis? ?
Answer: There are three different filarial species that can cause lymphatic filariasis in humans. Most of the infections worldwide are caused by Wuchereria bancrofti. In Asia, the disease can also be caused by Brugia malayi and Brugia timori.
    
The infection spreads from person to person by mosquito bites. The adult worm lives in the human lymph vessels, mates, and produces millions of microscopic worms, also known as microfilariae. Microfilariae circulate in the person's blood and infect the mosquito when it bites a person who is infected. Microfilariae grow and develop in the mosquito. When the mosquito bites another person, the larval worms pass from the mosquito into the human skin, and travel to the lymph vessels. They grow into adult worms, a process that takes 6 months or more. An adult worm lives for about 5–7 years. The adult worms mate and release millions of microfilariae into the blood. People with microfilariae in their blood can serve as a source of infection to others.
    
     
    
    
A wide range of mosquitoes can transmit the parasite, depending on the geographic area. In Africa, the most common vector is Anopheles and in the Americas, it is Culex quinquefasciatus. Aedes and Mansonia can transmit the infection in the Pacific and in Asia.
    
Many mosquito bites over several months to years are needed to get lymphatic filariasis. People living for a long time in tropical or sub-tropical areas where the disease is common are at the greatest risk for infection. Short-term tourists have a very low risk.
    
Programs to eliminate lymphatic filariasis are under way in more than 50 countries. These programs are reducing transmission of the filarial parasites and decreasing the risk of infection for people living in or visiting these communities.
    Geographic distribution
    
     
    
    
Lymphatic filariasis affects over 120 million people in 73 countries throughout the tropics and sub-tropics of Asia, Africa, the Western Pacific, and parts of the Caribbean and South America.
    
In the Americas, only four countries are currently known to be endemic: Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Guyana and Brazil.
    
In the United States, Charleston, South Carolina, was the last known place with lymphatic filariasis. The infection disappeared early in the 20th century. Currently, you cannot get infected in the U.S.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Loiasis? ?
Answer: Loa loa parasites are found in West and Central Africa. Ten countries have areas where there are high rates of infection (i.e., where more than 40% of the people who live in that area report that they have had eye worm in the past). An estimated 14.4 million people live in these areas of high rates of infection. Another 15.2 live in areas where 20–40% of people report that they have had eye worm in the past.
    
More on: Where Loa Loa is Prevelant [WHO Map]
    
The people most at risk for loiasis are those who live in the certain rain forests in West and Central Africa. The deerflies that pass the parasite to humans usually bite during the day and are more common during the rainy season. They are attracted by the movement of people and by smoke from wood fires. Rubber plantations are areas where more deerflies may be found. The flies do not typically enter homes, but they might be attracted to homes that are well lit.
    
Travelers are more likely to become infected if they are in areas where they are bitten by deerflies for many months, though occasionally they get infected even if they are in an affected area for less than 30 days.
    
Your risk of infection depends on the number of bites received, the number of infected deerflies in the area you visit, and the length of your stay in the area.

Question: Who is at risk for Omsk Hemorrhagic Fever (OHF)? ?
Answer: Humans can become infected through tick bites or through contact with the blood, feces, or urine of an infected, sick, or dead animal – most commonly, rodents. Occupational and recreational activities such as hunting or trapping may increase human risk of infection. 
 
Transmission may also occur with no direct tick or rodent exposure as OHFV appears to be extremely stable in different environments. It has been isolated from aquatic animals and water and there is even evidence that OHFV can be transmitted through the milk of infected goats or sheep to humans. 
 
No human-to-human transmission of OHFV has been documented but infections due to lab contamination have been described.

Question: Who is at risk for Omsk Hemorrhagic Fever (OHF)? ?
Answer: In areas where rodent reservoirs and tick species are prevalent, people with recreational or occupational exposure to rural or outdoor settings (e.g., hunters, campers, forest workers, farmers) are potentially at increased risk for OHF by contact with infected ticks and animals. Furthermore, those in Siberia who hunt and trap muskrats specifically are at higher risk for OHF. 
                
Exposure may also occur in the laboratory environment.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Enterobiasis (also known as Pinworm Infection)? ?
Answer: Risk Factors
    
The people most likely to be infected with pinworm are children under 18, people who take care of infected children and people who are institutionalized. In these groups, the prevalence can reach 50%.
    
Pinworm is the most common worm infection in the United States. Humans are the only species that can transfer this parasite. Household pets like dogs and cats cannot become infected with human pinworms. Pinworm eggs can survive in the indoor environment for 2 to 3 weeks.
    Epidemiology
    
Pinworm infections are more common within families with school-aged children, in primary caregivers of infected children, and in institutionalized children.
    
A person is infected with pinworms by ingesting pinworm eggs either directly or indirectly. These eggs are deposited around the anus by the worm and can be carried to common surfaces such as hands, toys, bedding, clothing, and toilet seats. By putting anyone’s contaminated hands (including one’s own) around the mouth area or putting one’s mouth on common contaminated surfaces, a person can ingest pinworm eggs and become infected with the pinworm parasite. Since pinworm eggs are so small, it is possible to ingest them while breathing.
    
Once someone has ingested pinworm eggs, there is an incubation period of 1 to 2 months or longer for the adult gravid female to mature in the small intestine. Once mature, the adult female worm migrates to the colon and lays eggs around the anus at night, when many of their hosts are asleep. People who are infected with pinworm can transfer the parasite to others for as long as there is a female pinworm depositing eggs on the perianal skin. A person can also re-infect themselves, or be re-infected by eggs from another person.

Question: Who is at risk for Hendra Virus Disease (HeV)? ?
Answer: Transmission of Hendra virus to humans can occur after exposure to body fluids and tissues or excretions of horses infected with Hendra virus. 
 
Horses may be infected after exposure to virus in the urine of infected flying foxes. 
 
To date, no human-to-human transmission has been documented.

Question: Who is at risk for Hendra Virus Disease (HeV)? ?
Answer: Australia’s “Flying fox” bats (genus Pteropus) are the natural reservoir of Hendra virus. Serologic evidence for HeV infection have been found in all fours species of Australian flying foxes, but spillover of the virus in horses is limited to coastal and forested regions in Australia (Queensland and New South Wales states)  (see Henipavirus Distribution Map). 
                
People at highest risk are those living within the distribution of the flying foxes and with occupational or recreational exposure to horses that have had potential contact with flying foxes in Australia.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Zoonotic Hookworm? ?
Answer: Dog and cat hookworms are found throughout the world, especially in warmer climates. In the United States, zoonotic hookworms are found everywhere but more commonly along the East Coast than the West Coast. Worldwide, zoonotic hookworms are found in tropical and subtropical regions where the parasite is better able to survive because of environmental conditions. However, there is one type of dog and cat hookworm that is more commonly found in cooler climates.
    
The global burden of zoonotic hookworm in dogs and cats is not known; also, the amount of disease in people caused by these parasites is also unknown. Cutaneous larva migrans (CLM) is most often reported by returning travelers to tropical regions who have had soil and/or sand exposures in places where dogs and cats are likely to have hookworms. However, CLM is likely causing significant problems for the people who live in less developed parts of the world, even though the disease is not reported regularly. In less developed areas of the world, dogs and cats are often free-ranging and have high rates of infection with hookworm which leads to widespread contamination of sand and soil. In a survey of a rural population in Brazil, the prevalence of CLM during the rainy season was 14.9% among children less than 5 years old and 0.7% among adults aged 20 years and older.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - African Trypanosomiasis (also known as Sleeping Sickness)? ?
Answer: There are two subspecies of the parasite Trypanosoma brucei that cause disease in humans. The clinical features of the infection depend on the subspecies involved. The two subspecies are found in different regions of Africa. At present, there is no overlap in their geographic distribution.
    
T. b. rhodesiense (East African sleeping sickness) is found in focal areas of eastern and southeastern Africa. Each year a few hundred cases are reported to the World Health Organization. Over 95% of the cases of human infection occur in Tanzania, Uganda, Malawi, and Zambia. Animals are the primary reservoir of infection. Cattle have been implicated in the spread of the disease to new areas and in local outbreaks. A wild animal reservoir is thought to be responsible for sporadic transmission to hunters and visitors to game parks. Infection of international travelers is rare, but it occasionally occurs. In the U.S., one case per year, on average, is diagnosed. Most cases of sleeping sickness imported into the U.S. have been in travelers who were on safari in East Africa.
    
T. b. gambiense (West African sleeping sickness) is found predominantly in central Africa and in limited areas of West Africa. Most of the sleeping sickness in Africa is caused by this form of the parasite. Epidemics of sleeping sickness have been a significant public health problem in the past, but the disease is reasonably well-controlled at present, with 7,000-10,000 cases reported annually in recent years. Over 95% of the cases of human infection are found in Democratic Republic of Congo, Angola, Sudan, Central African Republic, Chad, and northern Uganda. Humans are the important reservoir of infection, although the parasite can sometimes be found in domestic animals (e.g., pigs, dogs, goats). Imported infection in the U.S. is extremely rare, and most cases have occurred in African nationals who have immigrated rather than in returning U.S. travelers.
    
     
    
    
Both forms of sleeping sickness are transmitted by the bite of the tsetse fly (Glossina species). Tsetse flies inhabit rural areas, living in the woodlands and thickets that dot the East African savannah. In central and West Africa, they live in the forests and vegetation along streams. Tsetse flies bite during daylight hours. Both male and female flies can transmit the infection, but even in areas where the disease is endemic, only a very small percentage of flies are infected. Although the vast majority of infections are transmitted by the tsetse fly, other modes of transmission are possible. Occasionally, a pregnant woman can pass the infection to her unborn baby. In theory, the infection can also be transmitted by blood transfusion or sexual contact, but such cases have rarely been documented.
   
  
  
  
This information is not meant to be used for self-diagnosis or as a substitute for consultation with a health care provider. If you have any questions about the parasites described above or think that you may have a parasitic infection, consult a health care provider.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Fascioliasis (Fasciola Infection)? ?
Answer: Fascioliasis occurs in many areas of the world and usually is caused by F. hepatica, which is a common liver fluke of sheep and cattle. In general, fascioliasis is more common and widespread in animals than in people. Even so, the number of infected people in the world is thought to exceed 2 million.
    
Fasciola hepatica is found in more than 50 countries, in all continents except Antarctica. It is found in parts of Latin America, the Caribbean, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, and Oceania. Fasciola gigantica is less widespread. Human cases have been reported in the tropics, in parts of Africa and Asia, and also in Hawaii.
    
In some areas where fascioliasis is found, human cases are uncommon (sporadic). In other areas, human fascioliasis is very common (hyperendemic). For example, the areas with the highest known rates of human infection are in the Andean highlands of Bolivia and Peru.
    
Special conditions are needed for fascioliasis to be present in an area, and its geographic distribution is very patchy (focal). The eggs passed in the stool of infected mammals have to develop (mature) in a suitable aquatic snail host to be able to infect another mammalian host. Requirements include sufficient moisture and favorable temperatures (above 50°F) that allow the development of miracidia, reproduction of snails, and larval development within the snails. These factors also contribute to both the prevalence and level (intensity) of infection. Prevalence is highest in areas where climatic conditions promote development of cercariae.
    
More on: Biology
    
Infective Fasciola larvae (metacercariae) are found in contaminated water, either stuck to (encysted on) water plants or floating in the water, often in marshy areas, ponds, or flooded pastures. People (and animals) typically become infected by eating raw watercress or other contaminated water plants. The plants may be eaten as a snack or in salads or sandwiches. People also can get infected by ingesting contaminated water, such as by drinking it or by eating vegetables that were washed or irrigated with contaminated water. Infection also can result from eating undercooked sheep or goat livers that contain immature forms of the parasite.
    
The possibility of becoming infected in the United States should be considered, despite the fact that few locally acquired cases have been documented. The prerequisites for the Fasciola life cycle exist in some parts of the United States. In addition, transmission because of imported contaminated produce could occur, as has been documented in Europe.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Echinococcosis? ?
Answer: Cystic echinococcosis (CE) is caused by infection with the larval stage of Echinococcus granulosus. CE is found in Africa, Europe, Asia, the Middle East, Central and South America, and in rare cases, North America. The parasite is transmitted to dogs when they ingest the organs of other animals that contain hydatid cysts. The cysts develop into adult tapeworms in the dog. Infected dogs shed tapeworm eggs in their feces which contaminate the ground. Sheep, cattle, goats, and pigs ingest tapeworm eggs in the contaminated ground; once ingested, the eggs hatch and develop into cysts in the internal organs. The most common mode of transmission to humans is by the accidental consumption of soil, water, or food that has been contaminated by the fecal matter of an infected dog. Echinococcus eggs that have been deposited in soil can stay viable for up to a year. The disease is most commonly found in people involved in raising sheep, as a result of the sheep's role as an intermediate host of the parasite and the presence of working dogs that are allowed to eat the offal of infected sheep.
    
Alveolar echinococcosis (AE) is caused by infection with the larval stage of Echinococcus multilocularis. AE is found across the globe and is especially prevalent in the northern latitudes of Europe, Asia, and North America. The adult tapeworm is normally found in foxes, coyotes, and dogs. Infection with the larval stages is transmitted to people through ingestion of food or water contaminated with tapeworm eggs.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Angiostrongyliasis (also known as Angiostrongylus Infection)? ?
Answer: Angiostrongylus cantonensis
    
Angiostrongylus cantonensis, also known as the rat lungworm, is a parasitic nematode (worm) that is transmitted between rats and mollusks (such as slugs or snails) in its natural life cycle. Other animals that become infected such as freshwater shrimp, land crabs, frogs, and planarians of the genus Platydemus, are transport hosts that are not required for reproduction of the parasite but might be able to transmit infection to humans if eaten raw or undercooked. Humans are accidental hosts who do not transmit infection to others. Most cases of infection are diagnosed in Southeast Asia and the Pacific Basin, but the parasite has also been found in Australia, some areas of Africa, the Caribbean, Hawaii and Louisiana. Outbreaks of human angiostrongyliasis have involved a few to hundreds of persons; over 2,800 cases have been reported in the literature from approximately 30 countries. It is likely that the parasite has been spread by rats transported on ships and by the introduction of mollusks such as the giant African land snail (Achatina fulica). In addition, the semi-slug, Parmarion martensi (native of Southeast Asia)has spread in regions of Hawaii and is found to often be infected with A. cantonensis, and the freshwater snail Pomacea canaliculata (native of South America) has been introduced into Taiwan and China and has been implicated in outbreaks of disease in those countries.
    
Risk factors for infection with A. cantonensis include the ingestion of raw or undercooked infected snails or slugs; or pieces of snails and slugs accidentally chopped up in vegetables, vegetable juices, or salads; or foods contaminated by the slime of infected snails or slugs. It is possible that ingestion of raw or undercooked transport hosts (freshwater shrimp, land crabs, frogs, etc. ) can result in human infection, though this is less certain. In addition, contamination of the hands during the preparation of uncooked infected snails or slugs could lead to ingestion of the parasite.
    
     
    Angiostrongylus costaricensis
    
Angiostrongylus costaricensis is a parasitic nematode (worm) that resides in rodents and uses mollusks, such as slugs, as an intermediate host. Rats, such as the cotton rat, transmit the larvae through their feces. Slugs then ingest the larvae. Humans are accidental hosts of the parasite. The parasite is not able to complete its life cycle in humans and eventually dies in the abdomen. Human infection principally occurs in Latin America and the Caribbean, with a few cases suspected in the United States and in the Republic of Congo. The organism is also found in animals in the Southern U.S. (Texas).
    
Risk factors for infection with A. costaricensis are not well established but are likely to be ingestion of infected slugs or raw vegetables or vegetable juices contaminated with slugs or their slime, which can contain A. costaricensis larvae. The infection of transport hosts, which are not essential to the lifecycle of the parasite, has not been identified and any role in human infection is not known, in contrast to A. cantonensis. Some reports have shown the case rate to be higher in children 6 to 12 years of age, males, and in persons of higher socioeconomic status. There has been one food-related outbreak in Guatemala that affected primarily adults.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Ascariasis? ?
Answer: Ascaris infection is one of the most common intestinal worm infections. It is found in association with poor personal hygiene, poor sanitation, and in places where human feces are used as fertilizer.
    Geographic Distribution
    
The geographic distributions of Ascaris are worldwide in areas with warm, moist climates and are widely overlapping. Infection occurs worldwide and is most common in tropical and subtropical areas where sanitation and hygiene are poor.

Question: Who is at risk for Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever (CCHF)? ?
Answer: Ixodid (hard) ticks, especially those of the genus, Hyalomma, are both a reservoir and a vector for the CCHF virus. Numerous wild and domestic animals, such as cattle, goats, sheep and hares, serve as amplifying hosts for the virus. Transmission to humans occurs through contact with infected ticks or animal blood. CCHF can be transmitted from one infected human to another by contact with infectious blood or body fluids. Documented spread of CCHF has also occurred in hospitals due to improper sterilization of medical equipment, reuse of injection needles, and contamination of medical supplies.

Question: Who is at risk for Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever (CCHF)? ?
Answer: Animal herders, livestock workers, and slaughterhouse workers in endemic areas are at risk of CCHF. Healthcare workers in endemic areas are at risk of infection through unprotected contact with infectious blood and body fluids. Individuals and international travelers with contact to livestock in endemic regions may also be exposed.

Question: Who is at risk for Lujo Hemorrhagic Fever (LUHF)? ?
Answer: Like all arenaviruses, Lujo virus has a rodent host as its reservoir. Humans can contract LUHF through contact with an infected rodent. Contact can be direct or through inhalation of aerosolized Lujo virus from the urine or feces of infected rodents. 
 
Person-to-person transmission of Lujo virus was observed in the small, nosocomial cluster of hemorrhagic disease which resulted in the discovery of the Lujo virus. 
 
Transmission of arenaviruses, and Lujo virus in particular, is most likely the result of direct contact with the body fluids of an infected person, in the absence of infection control precautions.

Question: Who is at risk for Lujo Hemorrhagic Fever (LUHF)? ?
Answer: Lujo hemorrhagic fever (LUHF) occurs in southern Africa. The initial case was certainly infected in Zambia. 
   Field workers 
   
Field workers are at greatest risk because of increased human contact with the reservoir rodent population. Sexual partners of field workers may be at greater risk as well. In addition to nosocomial infection in healthcare workers already described, laboratory infections have been frequently described with Arenaviruses and Lujo virus can certainly be transmitted to laboratory workers during manipulation of the virus, especially during experimental infections of rodents.

Question: Who is at risk for ? ?
Answer: Measles: Make Sure Your Child Is Protected with MMR Vaccine Measles starts with a fever. Soon after, it causes a cough, runny nose, and red eyes. Then a rash of tiny, red spots breaks out. Measles can be serious for young children. Learn about protecting your child from measles with MMR vaccine. Protect your child at every age. Click on your child's age group for vaccine information. View or print age-specific vaccine information [252 KB, 27 pages] Records & Requirements Recording immunizations Finding immunization records Interpreting abbreviations on records Immunization requirements for child care and schools Making the Vaccine Decision How vaccines prevent diseases Vaccine side effects/risks Vaccine ingredients Ensuring vaccine safety Vaccines and your child’s immune system Learn More About Preteen and Teen Vaccines The Vaccines For Children program has helped prevent diseases and save lives…big time! [enlarged view] Watch The Immunization Baby Book Learn what vaccines your child needs, when they are needed, and why it is so important to follow the CDC’s recommended immunization schedule as you flip through this video baby book (4:04 mins) on CDC-TV or on YouTube. Who & When (Immunization Schedules) Birth through 6 Years Schedule [2 pages] Create a schedule for your child 7 through 18 Years Schedule [2 pages] 19 Years and Older Schedule [2 pages] Learn more about how CDC sets the immunization schedule for your family Knowing the childhood vaccination rates in your community is important. More Diseases and the Vaccines that Prevent Them Learn more about the 16 diseases that can be prevented with vaccines, as well as the benefits and risks of vaccination. Learn More About... Adoption and Vaccines Pregnancy Help Paying for Vaccines Evaluating Information on the Web

Question: Who is at risk for Acinetobacter in Healthcare Settings? ?
Answer: Acinetobacter poses very little risk to healthy people. However, people who have weakened immune systems, chronic lung disease, or diabetes may be more susceptible to infections with Acinetobacter. Hospitalized patients, especially very ill patients on a ventilator, those with a prolonged hospital stay, those who have open wounds, or any person with invasive devices like urinary catheters are also at greater risk for Acinetobacter infection. Acinetobacter can be spread to susceptible persons by person-to-person contact or contact with contaminated surfaces.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Lice - Pubic "Crab" Lice? ?
Answer: Pubic ("crab") lice infestation is found worldwide and occurs in all races and ethnic groups and in all levels of society. Pubic lice usually are spread through sexual contact and are most common in adults. Occasionally pubic lice may be spread by close personal contact or contact with articles such as clothing, bed linens, and towels that have been used by an infested person. Pubic lice found on the head or eyelashes of children may be an indication of sexual exposure or abuse.
    
Pubic lice do not transmit disease; however, secondary bacterial infection can occur from scratching of the skin.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Paragonimiasis (also known as Paragonimus Infection)? ?
Answer: Several species of Paragonimus cause most infections; the most important is P. westermani, which occurs primarily in Asia including China, the Philippines, Japan, Vietnam, South Korea, Taiwan, and Thailand. P. africanus causes infection in Africa, and P. mexicanus in Central and South America. Specialty dishes in which shellfish are consumed raw or prepared only in vinegar, brine, or wine without cooking play a key role in the transmission of paragonimiasis. Raw crabs or crayfish are also used in traditional medicine practices in Korea, Japan, and some parts of Africa.
    
Although rare, human paragonimiasis from P. kellicotti has been acquired in the United States, with multiple cases from the Midwest. Several cases have been associated with ingestion of uncooked crawfish during river raft float trips in Missouri.

Question: are certain people at risk of getting vancomycin-resistant enterococci?
Answer: On this Page General Information What is vancomycin-resistant enterococci? What types of infections does vancomycin-resistant enterococci cause? Are certain people at risk of getting vancomycin-resistant enterococci? What is the treatment for vancomycin-resistant enterococci? How is vancomycin-resistant enterococci spread? How can patients prevent the spread of vancomycin-resistant enterococci? What should a patient do if they think they have vancomycin-resistant enterococci? Recommendations and Guidelines General Information For more images of this bacterium, search the Public Health Image Library What is vancomycin-resistant enterococci? Enteroccocci are bacteria that are normally present in the human intestines and in the female genital tract and are often found in the environment. These bacteria can sometimes cause infections. Vancomycin is an antibiotic that is used to treat some drug-resistant infections caused by enterococci. In some instances, enterococci have become resistant to this drug and thus are called vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE). Most VRE infections occur in hospitals. Top of page What types of infections does VRE cause? VRE can live in the human intestines and female genital tract without causing disease (often called colonization). However, sometimes it can cause infections of the urinary tract, the bloodstream, or of wounds associated with catheters or surgical procedures. Top of page Are certain people at risk of getting VRE? The following persons are at increased risk becoming infected with VRE: People who have been previously treated with the antibiotic vancomycin or other antibiotics for long periods of time. People who are hospitalized, particularly when they receive antibiotic treatment for long periods of time. People with weakened immune systems such as patients in intensive care units, or in cancer or transplant wards. People who have undergone surgical procedures such as abdominal or chest surgery. People with medical devices that stay in for some time such as urinary catheters or central intravenous (IV) catheters. People who are colonized with VRE. Top of page What is the treatment for VRE? People with colonized VRE (bacteria are present, but have no symptoms of an infection)  do not need treatment. Most VRE infections can be treated with antibiotics other than vancomycin. Laboratory testing of the VRE can determine which antibiotics will work. For people who get VRE infections in their bladder and have urinary catheters, removal of the catheter when it is no longer needed can also help get rid of the infection. Top of page How is VRE spread? VRE is often passed from person to person by the contaminated hands of caregivers. VRE can get onto a caregiver's hands after they have contact with other people with VRE or after contact with contaminated surfaces. VRE can also be spread directly to people after they touch surfaces that are contaminated with VRE. VRE is not spread through the air by coughing or sneezing. Top of page How can patients prevent the spread of VRE? If a patient or someone in their household has VRE, the following are some things they can do to prevent the spread of VRE: Keep their hands clean. Always wash their hands thoroughly after using the bathroom and before preparing food. Clean their hands after contact with persons who have VRE. Wash with soap and water (particularly when visibly soiled) or use alcohol-based hand rubs. Frequently clean areas of the home, such as bathrooms, that may become contaminated with VRE. Wear gloves if hands may come in contact with body fluids that may contain VRE, such as stool or bandages from infected wounds. Always wash their hands after removing gloves. If someone has VRE, be sure to tell healthcare providers so that they are aware of the infection. Healthcare facilities use special precautions to help prevent the spread of VRE to others. Top of page What should patients do if they think they have vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE)? Anyone who thinks they have VRE must talk with their healthcare provider. Top of page Recommendations and Guidelines For more information about prevention and treatment of HAIs, see the resources below: Siegel JD, Rhinehart E, Jackson M, et al. The Healthcare Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee (HICPAC). Management of Multidrug-Resistant Organisms In Healthcare Settings, 2006

Question: Who is at risk for Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD)? ?
Answer: Transmission to humans may occur after a tick bite or contact with an infected animal, most importantly a sick or recently dead monkey. No person-to-person transmission has been described. 
 
Large animals such as goats, cows, and sheep may become infected with KFD but play a limited role in the transmission of the disease. These animals provide the blood meals for ticks and it is possible for infected animals with viremia to infect other ticks, but transmission of KFDV to humans from these larger animals is extremely rare. Furthermore, there is no evidence of disease transmission via the unpasteurized milk of any of these animals.

Question: Who is at risk for Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD)? ?
Answer: KFD has historically been limited to the western and central districts of Karnataka State, India. However, in November 2012, samples from humans and monkeys tested positive for KFDV in the southernmost district of the State which neighbors Tamil Nadu State and Kerala State, indicating the possibility of wider distribution of KFDV. Additionally, a virus very similar to KFD virus (Alkhurma hemorrhagic fever virus) has been described in Saudi Arabia. 
                
People with recreational or occupational exposure to rural or outdoor settings (e.g., hunters, herders, forest workers, farmers) within Karnataka State are potentially at risk for infection by contact with infected ticks. Seasonality is another important risk factor as more cases are reported during the dry season, from November through June.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Cyclosporiasis (Cyclospora Infection)? ?
Answer: People become infected with Cyclospora by ingesting sporulated oocysts, which are the infective form of the parasite. This most commonly occurs when food or water contaminated with feces is consumed. An infected person sheds unsporulated (immature, non-infective) Cyclospora oocysts in the feces. The oocysts are thought to require days to weeks in favorable environmental conditions to sporulate (become infective). Therefore, direct person-to-person transmission is unlikely, as is transmission via ingestion of newly contaminated food or water.
    
More on: Cyclospora Biology
    Geographic Distribution
    
Cyclosporiasis occurs in many countries, but it seems to be most common in tropical and subtropical regions. In areas where cyclosporiasis has been studied, the risk for infection is seasonal. However, no consistent pattern has been identified regarding the time of year or the environmental conditions, such as temperature or rainfall.
    
In the United States, foodborne outbreaks of cyclosporiasis since the mid-1990s have been linked to various types of imported fresh produce, including raspberries, basil, snow peas, and mesclun lettuce; no commercially frozen or canned produce has been implicated.
    
U.S. cases of infection also have occurred in persons who traveled to Cyclospora-endemic areas. To reduce the risk for infection, travelers should take precautions, such as those recommended in CDC's Health Information for International Travel (Yellow Book). Travelers also should be aware that treatment of water or food with chlorine or iodine is unlikely to kill Cyclospora oocysts.

Question: Who is at risk for Parasites - Trichinellosis (also known as Trichinosis)? ?
Answer: People acquire trichinellosis by consuming raw or undercooked meat infected with the Trichinella parasite, particularly wild game meat or pork. Even tasting very small amounts of undercooked meat during preparation or cooking puts you at risk for infection. Outbreaks occur in settings where multiple people consume the same Trichinella-infected meat.
Worldwide, an estimated 10,000 cases of trichinellosis occur every year. Several different species of Trichinella can cause human disease; the most common species is Trichinella spiralis, which has a global distribution and is the species most commonly found in pigs. Other Trichinella species are less commonly reported as the cause of human disease and may be found in different parts of the world, usually infecting wild animals.
In the United States, trichinellosis cases are reported to CDC much less commonly now than in the past (Figure 1). During the late 1940s, when the U.S. Public Health Service began counting cases of trichinellosis, 400 cases in the United States were recorded each year on average. During 2008-2010, 20 cases were reported to CDC each year on average. The overall number of cases reported has decreased because of improved pig-raising practices in the pork industry, commercial and home freezing of pork, and public awareness of the danger of eating raw or undercooked meat products. The number of cases associated with raw or undercooked wild game meats has remained relatively constant over time (Figure 2). Over the past 40 years, few cases of trichinellosis have been reported in the United States, and the risk of trichinellosis from commercially raised and properly prepared pork is very low. However, eating undercooked wild game, particularly bear meat, puts one at risk for acquiring this disease.

Question: Who is at risk for What I need to know about Crohn's Disease? ?
Answer: Both men and women can get Crohn's disease, and it can run in families. People with Crohns disease may have a blood relative with the disease or another type of IBD. Crohns disease most commonly starts between the ages of 13 and 30.

Question: Who is at risk for Smoking and the Digestive System? ?
Answer: Smoking has been found to increase the risk of cancers of the3
                
- mouth  - esophagus  - stomach  - pancreas
                
3
                
,
                
4
                
,
                
5
                
- liver  - colon  - rectum
                
More information about the link between smoking and cancers of the digestive system can be found on the National Cancer Institute website at www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/tobacco/smoking.

Question: Who is at risk for Kidney Stones in Adults? ?
Answer: Anyone can get a kidney stone, but some people are more likely to get one. Men are affected more often than women, and kidney stones are more common in non-Hispanic white people than in non-Hispanic black people and Mexican Americans. Overweight and obese people are more likely to get a kidney stone than people of normal weight. In the United States, 8.8 percent of the population, or one in 11 people, have had a kidney stone.2

Question: Who is at risk for What I need to know about Interstitial Cystitis/Painful Bladder Syndrome? ?
Answer: Both men and women can get IC/PBS, though twice as many women are affected as men. It can occur at any age, but it is most common in middle age.
                
People with IC/PBS rarely have bladder pain all the time. The pain usually comes and goes as the bladder fills and then empties. The pain may go away for weeks or months and then return. People with IC/PBS sometimes refer to an attack of bladder pain as a flare or flare-up. Stress may bring on a flare-up of symptoms in someone who has IC/PBS. But stress does not cause a person to get IC/PBS.

Question: Who is at risk for Hematuria (Blood in the Urine)? ?
Answer: Almost anyone, including children and teens, can have hematuria. Factors that increase the chance a person will have hematuria include
                
- a family history of kidney disease  - an enlarged prostate, which typically occurs in men age 50 or older  - urinary stone disease  - certain medications including aspirin and other pain relievers, blood thinners, and antibiotics  - strenuous exercise such as long-distance running  - a recent bacterial or viral infection

Question: Who is at risk for What I need to know about Erectile Dysfunction? ?
Answer: Erectile dysfunction affects men of all races and in all parts of the world. Men are more likely to have ED as they get older. For example, ED occurs in
                
- about 12 percent of men younger than 60  - 22 percent of men age 60 to 69  - 30 percent of men age 70 or older

Question: Who is at risk for Urinary Tract Infection In Adults? ?
Answer: Although everyone has some risk, some people are more prone to getting UTIs than others. People with spinal cord injuries or other nerve damage around the bladder have difficulty emptying their bladder completely, allowing bacteria to grow in the urine that stays in the bladder. Anyone with an abnormality of the urinary tract that obstructs the flow of urinea kidney stone or enlarged prostate, for exampleis at risk for a UTI. People with diabetes or problems with the bodys natural defense system are more likely to get UTIs.
                
Sexual activity can move microbes from the bowel or vaginal cavity to the urethral opening. If these microbes have special characteristics that allow them to live in the urinary tract, it is harder for the body to remove them quickly enough to prevent infection. Following sexual intercourse, most women have a significant number of bacteria in their urine, but the body normally clears them within 24 hours. However, some forms of birth control increase the risk of UTI. In some women, certain spermicides may irritate the skin, increasing the risk of bacteria invading surrounding tissues. Using a diaphragm may slow urinary flow and allow bacteria to multiply. Condom use is also associated with increased risk of UTIs, possibly because of the increased trauma that occurs to the vagina during sexual activity. Using spermicides with diaphragms and condoms can increase risk even further.
                
Another common source of infection is catheters, or tubes, placed in the urethra and bladder. Catheters interfere with the bodys ability to clear microbes from the urinary tract. Bacteria travel through or around the catheter and establish a place where they can thrive within the bladder. A person who cannot urinate in the normal way or who is unconscious or critically ill often needs a catheter for more than a few days. The Infectious Diseases Society of America recommends using catheters for the shortest time possible to reduce the risk of a UTI.3
                
Recurrent Infections
                
Many women suffer from frequent UTIs. About 20 percent of young women with a first UTI will have a recurrent infection.4 With each UTI, the risk that a woman will continue having recurrent UTIs increases.5 Some women have three or more UTIs a year. However, very few women will have frequent infections throughout their lives. More typically, a woman will have a period of 1 or 2 years with frequent infections, after which recurring infections cease.
                
Men are less likely than women to have a first UTI. But once a man has a UTI, he is likely to have another because bacteria can hide deep inside prostate tissue. Anyone who has diabetes or a problem that makes it hard to urinate may have repeat infections.
                
Research funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) suggests that one factor behind recurrent UTIs may be the ability of bacteria to attach to cells lining the urinary tract. One NIH-funded study found that bacteria formed a protective film on the inner lining of the bladder in mice.6 If a similar process can be demonstrated in humans, the discovery may lead to new treatments to prevent recurrent UTIs. Another line of research has indicated that women who are nonsecretors of certain blood group antigens may be more prone to recurrent UTIs because the cells lining the vagina and urethra may allow bacteria to attach more easily. A nonsecretor is a person with an A, B, or AB blood type who does not secrete the normal antigens for that blood type in bodily fluids, such as fluids that line the bladder wall.7
                
Infections during Pregnancy
                
Pregnant women seem no more prone to UTIs than other women. However, when a UTI does occur in a pregnant woman, it is more likely to travel to the kidneys. According to some reports, about 4 to 5 percent of pregnant women develop a UTI.8 Scientists think that hormonal changes and shifts in the position of the urinary tract during pregnancy make it easier for bacteria to travel up the ureters to the kidneys and cause infection. For this reason, health care providers routinely screen pregnant women for bacteria in the urine during the first 3 months of pregnancy.

Question: Who is at risk for Mntriers Disease? ?
Answer: Mntriers disease is rare. The disease is more common in men than in women. The average age at diagnosis is 55.2

Question: Who is at risk for I Can Lower My Risk for Type 2 Diabetes: A Guide for American Indians? ?
Answer: - My mother had diabetes when I was born.   - I am overweight.  - I have a parent, brother, or sister with diabetes.  - My family background is American Indian.  - I have had gestational diabetes, or I gave birth to at least one baby weighing more than 9 pounds.  - My blood pressure is 140/90 mmHg or higher, or I have been told that I have high blood pressure.  - My cholesterol levels are higher than normal. My HDL cholesterol"good" cholesterolis below 35 mg/dL, or my triglyceride level is above 250 mg/dL.  - I am fairly inactive. I exercise fewer than three times a week.

Question: Who is at risk for I Can Lower My Risk for Type 2 Diabetes: A Guide for American Indians? ?
Answer: - Reach and maintain a reasonable body weight.  - Make wise food choices most of the time.  - Be physically active every day.  - Take your prescribed medicines.
                
Doing these things can reduce your risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Keeping your blood pressure and cholesterol on target also helps you stay healthy.
                
If you are pregnant, plan to breastfeed your baby. Ask your health care provider for the names of people to call for help learning to breastfeed. Besides being good for your baby, breastfeeding is good for you. Studies done with the help of Pima Indian volunteers have shown that breastfeeding may lower the baby's risk of becoming overweight and getting diabetes.
                
Getting Started.
                
Making changes in your life such as eating less can be hard. You can make the changes easier by taking these steps:
                
- Make a plan to change something that you do.  - Decide exactly what you will do and when you will do it.  - Plan what you need to get ready.  - Think about what might prevent you from reaching your goal.  - Find family and friends who will support and encourage you.  - Decide how you will reward yourselfwith a nonfood itemor activitywhen you do what you have planned.
                
Your health care provider, a registered dietitian, or a counselor can help you make a plan.
                
Reach and Maintain a Reasonable Body Weight.
                
Your weight affects your health in many ways. Being overweight can keep your body from making and using insulin correctly. The extra weight may also cause high blood pressure. The DPP study showed that losing even a few pounds can help lower your risk of developing type 2 diabetes, because weight loss helps your body use insulin more effectively. Every pound you lose lowers your risk of getting diabetes. In the DPP, people who lost 5 to 7 percent of their body weight lowered their risk of developing type 2 diabetes. They had less than half the risk of developing diabetes as people who didn't make lifestyle changes. A 5- to 7-percent weight loss for a 150-pound person, for example, would be about 7 to 10 pounds. If you're overweight, choose sensible ways to lose weight.
                
- Don't use crash diets. Instead, eat smaller servings of the foods you usually have, and limit the amount of fat you eat.  - Increase your physical activity. Aim for at least 30 minutes of exercise most days of the week. Do something you enjoy, like biking or walking with a friend.  - Set a reasonable weight-loss goal, such as losing about a pound a week. Aim for a long-term goal of losing the number of pounds that's right for you.
                
Choosing My Weight Loss Goal.
                
Losing 5 to 7 percent of your total weight can help lower your risk of getting type 2 diabetes. You are more likely to lose weight if:
                
- you're physically active   - you cut down on fat and calories  - Use these steps to choose a goal. Talk with your health care provider and your dietitian about your goal and how to reach it.
                
To find your weight loss goal for losing about 5 to 7 percent of your weight, find the weight closest to yours on the chart below. Follow the row across to see how many pounds you need to lose.
                
Your weight in pounds    5 percent loss in pounds*    7 percent loss in pounds**          150    8    11        175    9    12        200    10    14        225    11    16        250    13    18        275    14    19        300    15    21        325    16    23        350    18    25
                
*To find your exact weight loss goal in pounds for a 5 percent loss, multiply your weight by .05.
                
**To find your exact weight loss goal in pounds for a 7 percent loss, multiply your weight by .07.
                
Write your weight loss goal here:
                
To lower my risk of getting type 2 diabetes, my goal is to lose about ___________ pounds.
                
Write down what you will do to lose weight. I will:
                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                
Choose a date to start your plan for losing weight and write it here:
                
Start date: ___________________
                
Look ahead to when you think you can meet your goal. Allow about a week for each pound or half-pound you'd like to lose. Write the date for meeting your goal here:
                
End date: ___________________
                
Make Wise Food Choices Most of The Time
                
What you eat has a big impact on your health. By making wise food choices, you can help control your body weight, blood glucose, blood pressure, and cholesterol.
                
- Keep track of what you eat and drink. People who keep track are more successful in losing weight. You can use the Daily Food and Drink Tracker to write down what you eat and drink.   - Take a look at the serving sizes of the foods you eat. Reduce serving sizes of main courses, meat, desserts, and other foods high in fat. Increase the amount of fruits and vegetables at every meal. Below is a chart for choosing sensible serving sizes using your hand as a measuring guide. Because your hand is proportioned to the rest of your body, it can be used to measure a healthy serving size for your body. Remember, the chart is only a guide. Choose your serving sizes and foods wisely.  - Limit your fat intake to about 25 percent of your total calories. Your health care provider or dietitian can help you figure out how many grams of fat to have every day. You can check food labels for fat content. For example, if your food choices add up to about 2,000 calories a day, try to eat no more than 56 grams of fat. See Ways to Lower The Amount of Fat in Your Meals and Snacks.  - Cut down on calories by eating smaller servings and by cutting back on fat. People in the DPP lifestyle change group lowered their daily calorie total by an average of about 450 calories. Your health care provider or dietitian can work with you to develop a meal plan that helps you lose weight.  - Choose healthy commodity foods (items provided by the government to help people consume a nutritious diet), including those lower in fat.  - When you meet your goal, reward yourself with something special, like a new outfit or a movie.
                
Choose Sensible Serving Sizes
                
Amount of food    Types of food    Size of one serving (the same size as:)          3 ounces    meat, chicken, turkey, or fish    the palm of a hand or a deck of cards         1 cup    cooked vegetables salads casseroles or stews, such as chili with beans milk     an average-sized fist         1/2 cup    fruit or fruit juice starchy vegetables, such as potatoes or corn pinto beans and other dried beans rice or noodles cereal     half of an average-sized fist         1 ounce    snack food    one handful         1 Tablespoon    salad dressing    the tip of a thumb         1 teaspoon    margarine    a fingertip
                

                
Ways to Lower The Amount of Fat in Your Meals and Snacks
                
- Choose lower-fat foods. Example: Instead of sunflower seeds (20 grams of fat),  choose pretzels (1 gram).  Savings: 19 grams.    - Use low-fat versions of foods. Example: Instead of regular margarine (5 grams of fat),  use low-fat margarine (2 grams). Savings: 3 grams.    - Use low-fat seasonings. Example: Instead of putting butter and sour cream on your baked potato  (20 grams of fat), have salsa (0 grams). Savings: 20 grams.    - Cook with less fat. Example: Instead of making fried chicken (31 grams of fat),  roast or grill the chicken (9 grams). Savings: 22 grams.
                
Remember that low-fat or fat-free products still contain calories. Be careful about how much you eat. In fact, some low-fat or fat-free products are high in calories. Check the food label
                
Be Physically Active Every Day
                
- Keep track of what you do for exercise and how long you do it. Use the Daily Physical Activity Tracker to keep track of your physical activity.  - Aim for at least 30 minutes of physical activity a day most days of the week.  - Incorporate physical activity into plans with family and friends. Set a good example for your children. Play softball on weekends. Go on a family hike.  - Be active every day. For example, walk to the store, clean the house, or work in the garden, rather than watch TV.
                
Getting Started on a Walking Routine
                
Walking is a great way to be physically active. Before you get started, talk with your health care provider about whether it's OK for you to walk for exercise. Then get comfortable shoes that provide good support. You can use the Daily Physical Activity Tracker to start your routine gradually. Try to walk at least 5 times a week. Build up little by little to 30 minutes a day of brisk walking.
                
My Walking Program
                
Week number    Warm-up time (minutes) Walk slowly    Fast walk time (minutes) Walk briskly    Cool-down time (minutes) Walk slowly    Total (minutes)          1    5    5    5    15        2    5    8    5    18        3    5    11    5    21        4    5    14    5    24        5    5    17    5    27        6    5    20    5    30        7    5    23    5    33        8    5    26    5    36        9+    5    30    5    40
                
Take Your Prescribed Medicines
                

                

                
Daily Food and Drink Tracker
                
Use the Daily Food and Drink Tracker to keep track of everything you eat and drink. Make a copy of the form for each day. Write down the time, the name of the food or drink, and how much you had. For a free booklet with information on fat grams and calories, call the National Diabetes Education Program at 1888693NDEP (18886936337) and request a copy of the Game Plan Fat and Calorie Counter(PDF, 405.05 KB).
                
Sample
                
Daily Food and Drink TrackerDate: _____________
                
Time    Name    Amount    Fat Grams    Calories          8:00 am    oatmeal    1/2 cup    1    80            fat-free milk    1 cup    0    90
                

                
Daily Physical Activity Tracker
                
Use the Daily Physical Activity Tracker to keep track of your physical activity. Make a copy of the form for each day. Write down what you do and for how long.
                
Sample
                
Daily Physical Activity TrackerDate: _____________
                
Type of Activity    Minutes          Walking    20        Gardening    10
                

                
Daily Food and Drink TrackerDate: _____________
                
Time    Name    Amount    Fat Grams    Calories                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOTALS        
                
Daily Physical Activity TrackerDate: _____________           Type of Activity     Minutes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOTAL

Question: Who is at risk for Diverticular Disease? ?
Answer: Diverticulosis becomes more common as people age, particularly in people older than age 50.3 Some people with diverticulosis develop diverticulitis, and the number of cases is increasing. Although diverticular disease is generally thought to be a condition found in older adults, it is becoming more common in people younger than age 50, most of whom are male.1

Question: Who is at risk for Gallstones? ?
Answer: Certain people have a higher risk of developing gallstones than others:2
                
- Women are more likely to develop gallstones than men. Extra estrogen can increase cholesterol levels in bile and decrease gallbladder contractions, which may cause gallstones to form. Women may have extra estrogen due to pregnancy, hormone replacement therapy, or birth control pills.   - People over age 40 are more likely to develop gallstones than younger people.   - People with a family history of gallstones have a higher risk.   - American Indians have genetic factors that increase the amount of cholesterol in their bile. In fact, American Indians have the highest rate of gallstones in the United Statesalmost 65 percent of women and 30 percent of men have gallstones.   - Mexican Americans are at higher risk of developing gallstones.
                
Other factors that affect a persons risk of gallstones include2
                
- Obesity. People who are obese, especially women, have increased risk of developing gallstones. Obesity increases the amount of cholesterol in bile, which can cause stone formation.   - Rapid weight loss. As the body breaks down fat during prolonged fasting and rapid weight loss, the liver secretes extra cholesterol into bile. Rapid weight loss can also prevent the gallbladder from emptying properly. Low-calorie diets and bariatric surgerysurgery that limits the amount of food a person can eat or digestlead to rapid weight loss and increased risk of gallstones.   - Diet. Research suggests diets high in calories and refi ned carbohydrates and low in fi ber increase the risk of gallstones. Refi ned carbohydrates are grains processed to remove bran and germ, which contain nutrients and  fiber. Examples of refi ned carbohydrates include white bread and white rice.   - Certain intestinal diseases. Diseases that affect normal absorption of nutrients, such as Crohns disease, are associated with gallstones.   - Metabolic syndrome, diabetes, and insulin resistance. These conditions increase the risk of gallstones. Metabolic syndrome also increases the risk of gallstone complications. Metabolic syndrome is a group of traits and medical conditions linked to being overweight or obese that puts people at risk for heart disease and type 2 diabetes.
                
More information about these conditions is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Insulin Resistance and Prediabetes.
                
- cirrhosisa condition in which the liver slowly deteriorates and malfunctions due to chronic, or long lasting, injury   - infections in the bile ducts   - severe hemolytic anemiasconditions in which red blood cells are continuously broken down, such as sickle cell anemia

Question: Who is at risk for Microscopic Colitis: Collagenous Colitis and Lymphocytic Colitis? ?
Answer: No. Unlike the other inflammatory bowel diseases, such as Crohns disease and ulcerative colitis, microscopic colitis does not increase a persons risk of getting colon cancer.

Question: Who is at risk for Fecal Incontinence? ?
Answer: Nearly 18 million U.S. adultsabout one in 12have fecal incontinence.1 People of any age can have a bowel control problem, though fecal incontinence is more common in older adults. Fecal incontinence is slightly more common among women. Having any of the following can increase the risk:
                
- diarrhea, which is passing loose, watery stools three or more times a day  - urgency, or the sensation of having very little time to get to the toilet for a bowel movement  - a disease or injury that damages the nervous system  - poor overall health from multiple chronic, or long lasting, illnesses  - a difficult childbirth with injuries to the pelvic floorthe muscles, ligaments, and tissues that support the uterus, vagina, bladder, and rectum

Question: Who is at risk for What I need to know about Diverticular Disease? ?
Answer: Many people get diverticular disease. Starting at age 40, the chance of getting it increases about every 10 years. About half of people between the ages of 60 and 80 have diverticular disease. Almost everyone over 80 has it.

Question: Who is at risk for Hepatitis B: What Asian and Pacific Islander Americans Need to Know? ?
Answer: Since 1986, a hepatitis B vaccine has been available and should be given to newborns and children in the United States. The vaccine, however, is unavailableor has only recently become availablein many parts of the world. You are at higher risk for hepatitis B if you or your mother was born in a region of the world where hepatitis B is common, meaning 2 percent or more of the population is chronically infected with the hepatitis B virus.1 In most Asian and Pacific Island nations, 8 to 16 percent of the population is chronically infected.2

Question: Who is at risk for Hepatitis B: What Asian and Pacific Islander Americans Need to Know? ?
Answer: Anyone can get hepatitis B, but some people are at higher risk, including
                
- people who were born to a mother with hepatitis B  - people who have close household contact with someone infected with the hepatitis B virus  - people who have lived in parts of the world where hepatitis B is common, including most Asian and Pacific Island nations  - people who are exposed to blood or body fluids at work  - people on hemodialysis  - people whose sex partner(s) has hepatitis B  - people who have had more than one sex partner in the last 6 months or have a history of sexually transmitted disease  - injection drug users  - men who have sex with men

Question: Who is at risk for What I need to know about My Child's Urinary Tract Infection? ?
Answer: Any child can get a UTI, though girls get UTIs more often than boys.
                
Children with a condition called vesicoureteral reflux (VUR) are at higher risk for UTIs. VUR causes urine to reflux at the point where one or both ureters attach to the bladder. When urine stays in the urinary tract, bacteria have a chance to grow and spread. Infants and young children who get a UTI often have VUR.
                
Boys younger than 6 months who are not circumcised are at greater risk for a UTI than circumcised boys the same age. Boys who are circumcised have had the foreskin, which is the skin that covers the tip of the penis, removed.

Question: Who is at risk for Sexual and Urologic Problems of Diabetes? ?
Answer: Risk factors are conditions that increase the chances of getting a particular disease. The more risk factors people have, the greater their chances of developing that disease or condition. Diabetic neuropathy and related sexual and urologic problems appear to be more common in people who
                
- have poor blood glucose control  - have high levels of blood cholesterol  - have high blood pressure  - are overweight  - are older than 40  - smoke  - are physically inactive

Question: Who is at risk for Anemia of Inflammation and Chronic Disease? ?
Answer: While AI/ACD can affect people at any age, older adults are especially at risk because they have the highest rates of chronic disease. AI/ACD is also common among hospitalized patients, particularly those with chronic illnesses.
                
More than 130 million Americans live with at least one chronic illness.2 Addressing the causes of anemia in people with chronic disease can help improve their health and quality of life.

Question: Who is at risk for Abdominal Adhesions? ?
Answer: Of patients who undergo abdominal surgery, 93 percent develop abdominal adhesions.1 Surgery in the lower abdomen and pelvis, including bowel and gynecological operations, carries an even greater chance of abdominal adhesions. Abdominal adhesions can become larger and tighter as time passes, sometimes causing problems years after surgery.

Question: Who is at risk for Renal Artery Stenosis? ?
Answer: People at risk for artherosclerosis are also at risk for RAS. Risk factors for RAS caused by artherosclerosis include
                
- high blood cholesterol levels  - high blood pressure  - smoking  - insulin resistance  - diabetes  - being overweight or obese  - lack of physical activity  - a diet high in fat, cholesterol, sodium, and sugar  - being a man older than 45 or a woman older than 55  - a family history of early heart disease
                
The risk factors for RAS caused by FMD are unknown, but FMD is most common in women and people 25 to 50 years of age.3 FMD can affect more than one person in a family, indicating that it may be caused by an inherited gene.

Question: Who is at risk for What I need to know about Hepatitis A? ?
Answer: Anyone can get hepatitis A, but those more likely to are people who
                
- travel to developing countries  - live with someone who currently has an active hepatitis A infection  - use illegal drugs, including noninjection drugs  - have unprotected sex with an infected person  - provide child care
                
Also, men who have sex with men are more likely to get hepatitis A.

Question: Who is at risk for National Hormone and Pituitary Program (NHPP): Information for People Treated with Pituitary Human Growth Hormone (Comprehensive Report)? ?
Answer: No one can say what an individual person's risk is. Of the approximately 7,700 people who received NHPP pituitary hGH, 29 people got CJD. The two things that seem to be connected with getting CJD after pituitary hGH treatment are
                
1. How long a person was treated:
                
- In the United States, the average length of time for pituitary hGH treatment through the NHPP was about 3 years. For those individuals who developed CJD, the average length of treatment was about 8.4 years.  - Even though longer treatment time increased the risk for CJD in the United States, in other countries CJD has developed after shorter treatment periods.
                
2. When a person was treated:
                
- All of the 29 individuals treated with NHPP hGH who got CJD in the United States started pituitary hGH before 1977. No CJD has been reported in Americans who began treatment with NHPP hormone after 1977, when production of NHPP hormone was moved to a laboratory (headed by Dr. Albert Parlow) that used a new method of purifying pituitary hGH. Research in animals showed the newer purification steps introduced in 1977 reduced the risk of CJD transmission. Recently, an analysis of NHPP hGH recipients was completed taking into account the differences in follow-up time and the duration of treatment of recipients starting treatment before or after 1977. That analysis found that the new purification steps greatly reduced and may have eliminated the risk for CJD infection.  - Two cases of CJD have been reported in individuals who received commercially prepared pituitary hGH. An Austrian person was treated with pituitary hGH (Crescormon, from Kabi Pharma) for 14 months and died from CJD 22 years later. An American who was too tall to be eligible for NHPP hormone was treated with pituitary hGH made by two pharmaceutical companies (Asellacrin, from Serono, and Crescormon, from Kabi Pharma). This individual was treated with commercial hGH for 23 months and died just over 26 years later. The methods used to produce these commercial hormone preparations were not identical to the method used in Dr. Parlow's laboratory but did include a version of the important new purification step that has been shown to reduce CJD infectivity.  - Overall, one out of about 265 people (29 out of about 7,700 people) who were treated with NHPP pituitary hGH got CJD.  - However, one in about 91 people who began treatment before 1977 got CJD.  - People who started treatment before 1970 are at even higher risk. In that early group, one in about every 48 people (about 2.1 percent) got CJD.  - The appearance of new cases is decreasing, as there has only been one new case in the past 5 years.

Question: Who is at risk for Foodborne Illnesses? ?
Answer: Anyone can get a foodborne illness. However, some people are more likely to develop foodborne illnesses than others, including
                
- infants and children  - pregnant women and their fetuses  - older adults  - people with weak immune systems
                
These groups also have a greater risk of developing severe symptoms or complications of foodborne illnesses.

Question: Who is at risk for Proteinuria? ?
Answer: People with diabetes, hypertension, or certain family backgrounds are at risk for proteinuria. In the United States, diabetes is the leading cause of ESRD.1 In both type 1 and type 2 diabetes, albumin in the urine is one of the first signs of deteriorating kidney function. As kidney function declines, the amount of albumin in the urine increases.
                
Another risk factor for developing proteinuria is hypertension, or high blood pressure. Proteinuria in a person with high blood pressure is an indicator of declining kidney function. If the hypertension is not controlled, the person can progress to full kidney failure.
                
African Americans are more likely than Caucasians to have high blood pressure and to develop kidney problems from it, even when their blood pressure is only mildly elevated. In fact, African Americans are six times more likely than Caucasians to develop hypertension-related kidney failure.2
                
Other groups at risk for proteinuria are American Indians, Hispanics/Latinos, Pacific Islander Americans, older adults, and overweight people. These at-risk groups and people who have a family history of kidney disease should have their urine tested regularly.

Question: Who is at risk for Prolactinoma? ?
Answer: Women whose ovaries produce inadequate estrogen are at increased risk for osteoporosis. Hyperprolactinemia can reduce estrogen production. Although estrogen production may be restored after treatment for hyperprolactinemia, even a year or 2 without estrogen can compromise bone strength. Women should protect themselves from osteoporosis by increasing exercise and calcium intake through diet or supplements and by not smoking. Women treated for hyperprolactinemia may want to have periodic bone density measurements and discuss estrogen replacement therapy or other bone-strengthening medications with their doctor.

Question: Who is at risk for Perineal Injury in Males? ?
Answer: Men who have perineal surgery are most likely to have an acute perineal injury. Straddle injuries are most common among people who ride motorcycles, bikes, or horses and children who use playground equipment. Impalement injuries are most common in military personnel engaged in combat. Impalement injuries can also occur in construction or farm workers.
                
Chronic perineal injuries are most common in people who ride bikes as part of a job or sport, or in people with constipation.

Question: Who is at risk for Diabetes, Heart Disease, and Stroke? ?
Answer: Diabetes itself is a risk factor for heart disease and stroke. Also, many people with diabetes have other conditions that increase their chance of developing heart disease and stroke. These conditions are called risk factors. One risk factor for heart disease and stroke is having a family history of heart disease. If one or more members of your family had a heart attack at an early age (before age 55 for men or 65 for women), you may be at increased risk.
                
You can't change whether heart disease runs in your family, but you can take steps to control the other risk factors for heart disease listed here:
                
- Having central obesity. Central obesity means carrying extra weight around the waist, as opposed to the hips. A waist measurement of more than 40 inches for men and more than 35 inches for women means you have central obesity. Your risk of heart disease is higher because abdominal fat can increase the production of LDL (bad) cholesterol, the type of blood fat that can be deposited on the inside of blood vessel walls.  - Having abnormal blood fat (cholesterol) levels.      - LDL cholesterol can build up inside your blood vessels, leading to narrowing and hardening of your arteriesthe blood vessels that carry blood from the heart to the rest of the body. Arteries can then become blocked. Therefore, high levels of LDL cholesterol raise your risk of getting heart disease.    - Triglycerides are another type of blood fat that can raise your risk of heart disease when the levels are high.    - HDL (good) cholesterol removes deposits from inside your blood vessels and takes them to the liver for removal. Low levels of HDL cholesterol increase your risk for heart disease.    - Having high blood pressure. If you have high blood pressure, also called hypertension, your heart must work harder to pump blood. High blood pressure can strain the heart, damage blood vessels, and increase your risk of heart attack, stroke, eye problems, and kidney problems.  - Smoking. Smoking doubles your risk of getting heart disease. Stopping smoking is especially important for people with diabetes because both smoking and diabetes narrow blood vessels. Smoking also increases the risk of other long-term complications, such as eye problems. In addition, smoking can damage the blood vessels in your legs and increase the risk of amputation.

Question: Who is at risk for Biliary Atresia? ?
Answer: Biliary atresia is rare and only affects about one out of every 18,000 infants.1 The disease is more common in females, premature babies, and children of Asian or African American heritage.

Question: Who is at risk for Pyelonephritis: Kidney Infection? ?
Answer: People most at risk for pyelonephritis are those who have a bladder infection and those with a structural, or anatomic, problem in the urinary tract. Urine normally flows only in one directionfrom the kidneys to the bladder. However, the flow of urine may be blocked in people with a structural defect of the urinary tract, a kidney stone, or an enlarged prostatethe walnut-shaped gland in men that surrounds the urethra at the neck of the bladder and supplies fluid that goes into semen. Urine can also back up, or reflux, into one or both kidneys. This problem, which is called vesicoureteral reflux (VUR), happens when the valve mechanism that normally prevents backward flow of urine is not working properly. VUR is most commonly diagnosed during childhood. Pregnant women and people with diabetes or a weakened immune system are also at increased risk of pyelonephritis.

Question: Who is at risk for Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis? ?
Answer: Most people with PSC are adults but the disease also occurs in children. The average age at diagnosis is 40. PSC is more common in men than women. Having family members with PSC may increase a person's risk for developing PSC.

Question: Who is at risk for Nutrition for Early Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults? ?
Answer: Millions of Americans are at risk for developing CKD because they have diabetes, high blood pressure, or both. High blood glucose levels put people with diabetes at risk for heart disease, stroke, amputation, and eye and kidney problems. People with high blood pressure are at risk for damaged blood vessels, including tiny vessels in the kidneys.

Question: Who is at risk for Urinary Tract Infections in Children? ?
Answer: Throughout childhood, the risk of having a UTI is 2 percent for boys and 8 percent for girls. Having an anomaly of the urinary tract, such as urine reflux from the bladder back into the ureters, increases the risk of a UTI. Boys who are younger than 6 months old who are not circumcised are at greater risk for a UTI than circumcised boys the same age.1

Question: Who is at risk for What I need to know about Hepatitis C? ?
Answer: Anyone can get hepatitis C, but those more likely to are people who
                
- were born to a mother with hepatitis C  - are in contact with blood or infected needles at work  - have had more than one sex partner in the last 6 months or have a history of sexually transmitted disease  - are on kidney dialysisthe process of filtering wastes and extra water from the body by means other than the kidneys  - are infected with HIV  - have injected illegal drugs  - have had tattoos or body piercings  - work or live in a prison  - had a blood transfusion or organ transplant before July 1992  - have hemophilia and received clotting factor before 1987
                
Also, men who have sex with men are more likely to get hepatitis C.

Question: Who is at risk for What I need to know about Hepatitis B? ?
Answer: Anyone can get hepatitis B, but those more likely to are people who
                
- were born to a mother with hepatitis B  - are in contact with blood, needles, or body fluids at work  - live with someone who currently has an active hepatitis B infection  - have had more than one sex partner in the last 6 months or have a history of sexually transmitted disease  - are on kidney dialysisthe process of filtering wastes and extra water from the body by means other than the kidneys  - are taking medicines that suppress the immune system, such as steroids or chemotherapy medicines  - have lived in or travel often to parts of the world where hepatitis B is common  - are from Asian and Pacific Island nations  - are infected with HIV or hepatitis C  - have injected illegal drugs  - work or live in a prison  - had a blood transfusion or organ transplant before the mid-1980s
                
Also, men who have sex with men are more likely to get hepatitis B.

Question: Who is at risk for Am I at Risk for Type 2 Diabetes? Taking Steps to Lower Your Risk of Getting Diabetes? ?
Answer: To find out your risk for type 2 diabetes, check each item that applies to you.
                
- I am age 45 or older.  - I am overweight or obese.  - I have a parent, brother, or sister with diabetes.  - My family background is African American, Alaska Native, American Indian, Asian American, Hispanic/Latino, or Pacific Islander American.  - I have had gestational diabetes.  - I gave birth to at least one baby weighing more than 9 pounds.  - My blood pressure is 140/90 or higher, or I have been told that I have high blood pressure.  - My cholesterol levels are higher than normal. My HDL, or good, cholesterol is below 35, or my triglyceride level is above 250.  - I am fairly inactive.  - I have polycystic ovary syndrome, also called PCOS.  - On previous testing, I had prediabetesan A1C level of 5.7 to 6.4 percent, impaired fasting glucose (IFG), or impaired glucose tolerance (IGT).  - I have other clinical conditions associated with insulin resistance, such as a condition called acanthosis nigricans, characterized by a dark, velvety rash around my neck or armpits.  - I have a history of cardiovascular disease.
                
The more items you checked, the higher your risk.
                

                
Does sleep matter?   Yes. Studies show that untreated sleep problems, especially sleep apnea, can increase the risk of type 2 diabetes. Sleep apnea is a common disorder in which you have pauses in breathing or shallow breaths while you sleep. Most people who have sleep apnea dont know they have it and it often goes undiagnosed. Night shift workers who have problems with sleepiness may also be at increased risk for obesity and type 2 diabetes.   If you think you might have sleep problems, ask your doctor for help. More information about sleep problems is available from the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute at http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/resources/sleep.

Question: Who is at risk for Am I at Risk for Type 2 Diabetes? Taking Steps to Lower Your Risk of Getting Diabetes? ?
Answer: You can do a lot to reduce your risk of getting type 2 diabetes. Being more physically active, reducing fat and calorie intake, and losing a little weight can help you lower your chances of developing type 2 diabetes. Taking the diabetes medicine metformin can also reduce risk, particularly in younger and heavier people with prediabetes and women who have had gestational diabetes. Lowering blood pressure and cholesterol levels also helps you stay healthy.
                
If you are overweight, then take these steps:
                
- Reach and maintain a reasonable body weight. Even a 10 or 15 pound weight loss makes a big difference.  - Make wise food choices most of the time.  - Be physically active every day.
                
If you are fairly inactive, then take this step:
                
- Be physically active every day.
                
If your blood pressure is too high, then take these steps:
                
- Reach and maintain a reasonable body weight.  - Make wise food choices most of the time.  - Reduce your sodium and alcohol intake.  - Be physically active every day.  - Talk with your doctor about whether you need medicine to control your blood pressure.
                
If your cholesterol or triglyceride levels are too high, then take these steps:
                
- Make wise food choices most of the time.  - Be physically active every day.  - Talk with your doctor about whether you need medicine to control your cholesterol levels.

Question: Who is at risk for Am I at Risk for Type 2 Diabetes? Taking Steps to Lower Your Risk of Getting Diabetes? ?
Answer: Making big changes in your life is hard, especially if you are faced with more than one change. You can make it easier by taking these steps:
                
- Make a plan to change behavior.  - Decide exactly what you will do and give yourself a time frame.  - Plan what you need to get ready.  - Track your goals and activity on a food and activity tracker, available at http://www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/health-communication-programs/ndep/health-care-professionals/game-plan/small-steps/Documents/GP_FoodActTracker.pdf (PDF, 349 KB)   - Think about what might prevent you from reaching your goals.  - Find family and friends who will support and encourage you.  - Decide how you will reward yourselfa shopping trip, movie tickets, an afternoon in the parkwhen you do what you have planned.
                
Your doctor, a dietitian, or a counselor can help you make a plan.
                

                
Be Physically Active Every Day
                
Regular physical activity tackles several risk factors at once. Activity helps you lose weight; keeps your blood glucose, blood pressure, and cholesterol under control; and helps your body use insulin. People in the DPP who were physically active for 30 minutes a day, 5 days a week, reduced their risk of type 2 diabetes. Many chose brisk walking as their physical activity.
                
If you are not fairly active, you should start slowly. First, talk with your doctor about what kinds of physical activity are safe for you. Make a plan to increase your activity level toward the goal of being active at least 30 minutes a day most days of the week. You can increase your level of physical activity in two main ways:
                
1. Start an exercise program. 2. Increase your daily activity.
                
Start an exercise program. Pick exercises that suit you. Find a friend to walk with you or join an exercise class that will help you keep going.
                
- Do aerobic activities, which use your large muscles to make your heart beat faster. The large muscles are those of the upper and lower arms; upper and lower legs; and those that control head, shoulder, and hip movements.  - Do activities to strengthen muscles and bone, such as lifting weights or sit-ups, two to three times a week. Find helpsuch as a video or a classto learn how to do these exercises properly.
                
Increase your daily activity. Choose activities you enjoy. You can work extra activity into your daily routine by doing the following:
                
- Increase daily activity by decreasing time spent watching TV or at the computer. Set up a reminder on your computer to take an activity break.  - Take the stairs rather than an elevator or escalator.  - Park at the far end of the parking lot and walk.  - Get off the bus a few stops early and walk the rest of the way.  - Walk or bicycle whenever you can.
                

                
Take Your Prescribed Medicines
                
Some people need medicine to help control their blood pressure or cholesterol levels. If you do, take your medicines as directed. Ask your doctor if you should take metformin to prevent type 2 diabetes. Metformin is a medicine that makes insulin work better and can reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes.

Question: Who is at risk for Vesicoureteral Reflux? ?
Answer: Vesicoureteral reflux is more common in infants and young children, but older children and even adults can be affected. About 10 percent of children have VUR.1 Studies estimate that VUR occurs in about 32 percent of siblings of an affected child. This rate may be as low as 7 percent in older siblings and as high as 100 percent in identical twins. These findings indicate that VUR is an inherited condition.2

Question: Who is at risk for Liver (Hepatocellular) Cancer? ?
Answer: Having hepatitis or cirrhosis can increase the risk of developing liver cancer. Anything that increases the chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. People who think they may be at risk should discuss this with their doctor. Risk factors for liver cancer include:         - Having hepatitis B or hepatitis C; having both hepatitis B and hepatitis C increases the risk even more.    - Having cirrhosis, which can be caused by:                -  hepatitis (especially hepatitis C); or      - drinking large amounts of alcohol for many years or being an alcoholic.             - Eating foods tainted with aflatoxin (poison from a fungus that can grow on foods, such as grains and nuts, that have not been stored properly).

Question: Who is at risk for Ovarian Epithelial, Fallopian Tube, and Primary Peritoneal Cancer? ?
Answer: Women who have a family history of ovarian cancer are at an increased risk of ovarian cancer. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk.   Women who have one first-degree relative (mother, daughter, or sister) with a history of ovarian cancer have an increased risk of ovarian cancer. This risk is higher in women who have one first-degree relative and one second-degree relative (grandmother or aunt) with a history of ovarian cancer. This risk is even higher in women who have two or more first-degree relatives with a history of ovarian cancer.

Question: Who is at risk for Hypopharyngeal Cancer? ?
Answer: Use of tobacco products and heavy drinking can affect the risk of developing hypopharyngeal cancer. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors include the following:         - Smoking tobacco.    - Chewing tobacco.    - Heavy alcohol use.    - Eating a diet without enough nutrients.    - Having Plummer-Vinson syndrome.

Question: Who is at risk for Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors? ?
Answer: Genetic factors can increase the risk of having a gastrointestinal stromal tumor. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk.   The genes in cells carry the hereditary information received from a persons parents. The risk of GIST is increased in people who have inherited a mutation (change) in a certain gene. In rare cases, GISTs can be found in several members of the same family.   GIST may be part of a genetic syndrome, but this is rare. A genetic syndrome is a set of symptoms or conditions that occur together and is usually caused by abnormal genes. The following genetic syndromes have been linked to GIST:         -  Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1).    -  Carney triad.

Question: Who is at risk for Neuroblastoma? ?
Answer: The risk factors for neuroblastoma are not known.

Question: Who is at risk for Neuroblastoma? ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Screening tests have risks.    - The risks of neuroblastoma screening include the following:         -  Neuroblastoma may be overdiagnosed.     - False-negative test results can occur.     - False-positive test results can occur.
                
                
                    Screening tests have risks.
                    Decisions about screening tests can be difficult. Not all screening tests are helpful and most have risks. Before having any screening test, you may want to discuss the test with your doctor. It is important to know the risks of the test and whether it has been proven to reduce the risk of dying from cancer.
                
                
                    The risks of neuroblastoma screening include the following:
                    Neuroblastoma may be overdiagnosed.     When a screening test result leads to the diagnosis and treatment of a disease that may never have caused symptoms or become life-threatening, it is called overdiagnosis. For example, when a urine test result shows a higher than normal amount of homovanillic acid (HMA) or vanillyl mandelic acid (VMA), tests and treatments for neuroblastoma are likely to be done, but may not be needed. At this time, it is not possible to know which neuroblastomas found by a screening test will cause symptoms and which neuroblastomas will not. Diagnostic tests (such as biopsies) and cancer treatments (such as surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy) can have serious risks, including physical and emotional problems.       False-negative test results can occur.    Screening test results may appear to be normal even though neuroblastoma is present. A person who receives a false-negative test result (one that shows there is no cancer when there really is) may delay seeking medical care even if there are symptoms.       False-positive test results can occur.    Screening test results may appear to be abnormal even though no cancer is present. A false-positive test result (one that shows there is cancer when there really isn't) can cause anxiety and is usually followed by more tests and procedures, which also have risks.

Question: Who is at risk for Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia? ?
Answer: Older age and being male increase the risk of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Possible risk factors for CMML include the following:         - Older age.    - Being male.    - Being exposed to certain substances at work or in the environment.    - Being exposed to radiation.    - Past treatment with certain anticancer drugs.

Question: Who is at risk for Childhood Brain Stem Glioma? ?
Answer: Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your child's doctor if you think your child may be at risk. Possible risk factors for brain stem glioma include:          - Having certain genetic disorders, such as neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1).

Question: Who is at risk for Prostate Cancer? ?
Answer: Prostate cancer is the most common nonskin cancer among men in the United States. Prostate cancer is found mainly in older men. Although the number of men with prostate cancer is large, most men diagnosed with this disease do not die from it. Prostate cancer causes more deaths in men than any other cancer except lung cancer and colorectal cancer. Prostate cancer occurs more often in African-American men than in white men. African-American men with prostate cancer are more likely to die from the disease than white men with prostate cancer.

Question: Who is at risk for Prostate Cancer? ?
Answer: Different factors increase or decrease the risk of developing prostate cancer. Anything that increases a person's chance of developing a disease is called a risk factor. Anything that decreases your chance of getting a disease is called a protective factor.   For information about risk factors and protective factors for prostate cancer, see the PDQ summary on Prostate Cancer Prevention.

Question: Who is at risk for Breast Cancer? ?
Answer: Sometimes breast cancer occurs in women who are pregnant or have just given birth. Breast cancer occurs about once in every 3,000 pregnancies. It occurs most often between the ages of 32 and 38.

Question: Who is at risk for Nasopharyngeal Cancer? ?
Answer: Ethnic background and being exposed to the Epstein-Barr virus can affect the risk of nasopharyngeal cancer. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for nasopharyngeal cancer include the following:         - Having Chinese or Asian ancestry.    - Being exposed to the Epstein-Barr virus: The Epstein-Barr virus has been associated with certain cancers, including nasopharyngeal cancer and some lymphomas.    - Drinking large amounts of alcohol.

Question: Who is at risk for Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia? ?
Answer: Key Points
                    Past treatment for cancer and certain genetic conditions affect the risk of having childhood ALL. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your child's doctor if you think your child may be at risk.    Possible risk factors for ALL include the following:         - Being exposed to x-rays before birth.    - Being exposed to radiation.    - Past treatment with chemotherapy.    - Having certain genetic conditions, such as:               -  Down syndrome.      -  Neurofibromatosis type 1.      -  Bloom syndrome.      -  Fanconi anemia.      -  Ataxia-telangiectasia.      -  Li-Fraumeni syndrome.      - Constitutional mismatch repair deficiency (mutations in certain genes that stop DNA from repairing itself, which leads to the growth of cancers at an early age).             - Having certain changes in the chromosomes or genes.
                       
                
                    Risk Groups
                    - In childhood ALL, risk groups are used to plan treatment.    - Relapsed childhood ALL is cancer that has come back after it has been treated.
                
                
                
                    In childhood ALL, risk groups are used to plan treatment.
                    There are three risk groups in childhood ALL. They are described as:         - Standard (low) risk: Includes children aged 1 to younger than 10 years who have a white blood cell count of less than 50,000/L at the time of diagnosis.    - High risk: Includes children 10 years and older and/or children who have a white blood cell count of 50,000/L or more at the time of diagnosis.    - Very high risk: Includes children younger than age 1, children with certain changes in the genes, children who have a slow response to initial treatment, and children who have signs of leukemia after the first 4 weeks of treatment.        Other factors that affect the risk group include the following:         - Whether the leukemia cells began from B lymphocytes or T lymphocytes.    - Whether there are certain changes in the chromosomes or genes of the lymphocytes.    - How quickly and how low the leukemia cell count drops after initial treatment.    - Whether leukemia cells are found in the cerebrospinal fluid at the time of diagnosis.        It is important to know the risk group in order to plan treatment. Children with high-risk or very highrisk ALL usually receive more anticancer drugs and/or higher doses of anticancer drugs than children with standard-risk ALL.
                
                
                
                    Relapsed childhood ALL is cancer that has come back after it has been treated.
                    The leukemia may come back in the blood and bone marrow, brain, spinal cord, testicles, or other parts of the body.    Refractory childhood ALL is cancer that does not respond to treatment.

Question: Who is at risk for Colon Cancer? ?
Answer: Health history affects the risk of developing colon cancer. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk to your doctor if you think you may be at risk for colorectal cancer.    Risk factors for colorectal cancer include the following:            - Having a family history of colon or rectal cancer in a first-degree relative (parent, sibling, or child).     - Having a personal history of cancer of the colon, rectum, or ovary.     - Having a personal history of high-risk adenomas (colorectal polyps that are 1 centimeter or larger in size or that have cells that look abnormal under a microscope).     - Having inherited changes in certain genes that increase the risk of familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) or Lynch syndrome (hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer).     - Having a personal history of chronic ulcerative colitis or Crohn disease for 8 years or more.     - Having three or more alcoholic drinks per day.     - Smoking cigarettes.     - Being black.     - Being obese.           Older age is a main risk factor for most cancers. The chance of getting cancer increases as you get older.

Question: Who is at risk for Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma? ?
Answer: Having certain inherited disorders can increase the risk of adult soft tissue sarcoma. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for soft tissue sarcoma include the following inherited disorders:         -  Retinoblastoma.    -  Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1; von Recklinghausen disease).    -  Tuberous sclerosis (Bourneville disease).    -  Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP; Gardner syndrome).    -  Li-Fraumeni syndrome.    -  Werner syndrome (adult progeria).    -  Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome (Gorlin syndrome).        Other risk factors for soft tissue sarcoma include the following:         - Past treatment with radiation therapy for certain cancers.    - Being exposed to certain chemicals, such as Thorotrast (thorium dioxide), vinyl chloride, or arsenic.    - Having swelling (lymphedema) in the arms or legs for a long time.

Question: Who is at risk for Childhood Hodgkin Lymphoma? ?
Answer: Epstein-Barr virus infection increases the risk of childhood Hodgkin lymphoma. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your childs doctor if you think your child may be at risk.    Risk factors for childhood Hodgkin lymphoma include the following:          - Being infected with the Epstein-Barr virus.    - Being infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).    - Having certain diseases of the immune system.    - Having a personal history of mononucleosis ("mono").    - Having a parent or sibling with a personal history of Hodgkin lymphoma.        Being exposed to common infections in early childhood may decrease the risk of Hodgkin lymphoma in children because of the effect it has on the immune system.

Question: Who is at risk for Skin Cancer? ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.    - Being exposed to ultraviolet radiation is a risk factor for skin cancer.    - It is not known if the following lower the risk of nonmelanoma skin cancer:         - Sunscreen use and avoiding sun exposure     - Chemopreventive agents        - It is not known if the following lower the risk of melanoma:         - Sunscreen     - Counseling and protecting the skin from the sun        - Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.    -  New ways to prevent skin cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                
                
                    Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.
                    Avoiding cancer risk factors may help prevent certain cancers. Risk factors include smoking, being overweight, and not getting enough exercise. Increasing protective factors such as quitting smoking and exercising may also help prevent some cancers. Talk to your doctor or other health care professional about how you might lower your risk of cancer.
                
                
                    Being exposed to ultraviolet radiation is a risk factor for skin cancer.
                    Some studies suggest that being exposed to ultraviolet (UV) radiation and the sensitivity of a persons skin to UV radiation are risk factors for skin cancer. UV radiation is the name for the invisible rays that are part of the energy that comes from the sun. Sunlamps and tanning beds also give off UV radiation.   Risk factors for nonmelanoma and melanoma cancers are not the same.         -  Risk factors for nonmelanoma skin cancer:                  - Being exposed to natural sunlight or artificial sunlight (such as from tanning beds) over long periods of time.       - Having a fair complexion, which includes the following:                         - Fair skin that freckles and burns easily, does not tan, or tans poorly.         - Blue or green or other light-colored eyes.          - Red or blond hair.                       - Having actinic keratosis.        - Past treatment with radiation.       - Having a weakened immune system.       - Being exposed to arsenic.                -  Risk factors for melanoma skin cancer:                  - Having a fair complexion, which includes the following:                         - Fair skin that freckles and burns easily, does not tan, or tans poorly.          - Blue or green or other light-colored eyes.         - Red or blond hair.                      - Being exposed to natural sunlight or artificial sunlight (such as from tanning beds) over long periods of time.       - Having a history of many blistering sunburns, especially as a child or teenager.       - Having several large or many small moles.       - Having a family history of unusual moles (atypical nevus syndrome).       - Having a family or personal history of melanoma.        - Being white.
                
                
                    It is not known if the following lower the risk of nonmelanoma skin cancer:
                    Sunscreen use and avoiding sun exposure    It is not known if nonmelanoma skin cancer risk is decreased by staying out of the sun, using sunscreens, or wearing protective clothing when outdoors. This is because not enough studies have been done to prove this.    Sunscreen may help decrease the amount of UV radiation to the skin. One study found that wearing sunscreen can help prevent actinic keratoses, scaly patches of skin that sometimes become squamous cell carcinoma.     The harms of using sunscreen are likely to be small and include allergic reactions to skin creams and lower levels of vitamin D made in the skin because of less sun exposure.     It is also possible that when a person uses sunscreen to avoid sunburn they may spend too much time in the sun and be exposed to harmful UV radiation.    Although protecting the skin and eyes from the sun has not been proven to lower the chance of getting skin cancer, skin experts suggest the following:            -  Use sunscreen that protects against UV radiation.     -  Do not stay out in the sun for long periods of time, especially when the sun is at its strongest.     -  Wear long sleeve shirts, long pants, sun hats, and sunglasses, when outdoors.              Chemopreventive agents     Chemoprevention is the use of drugs, vitamins, or other agents to try to reduce the risk of cancer. The following chemopreventive agents have been studied to find whether they lower the risk of nonmelanoma skin cancer:         Beta carotene      Studies of beta carotene (taken as a supplement in pills) have not shown that it prevents nonmelanoma skin cancer from forming or coming back.            Isotretinoin      High doses of isotretinoin have been shown to prevent new skin cancers in patients with xeroderma pigmentosum. However, isotretinoin has not been shown to prevent nonmelanoma skin cancers from coming back in patients previously treated for nonmelanoma skin cancers. Treatment with isotretinoin can cause serious side effects.            Selenium      Studies have shown that selenium (taken in brewer's yeast tablets) does not lower the risk of basal cell carcinoma, and may increase the risk of squamous cell carcinoma.            Celecoxib      A study of celecoxib in patients with actinic keratosis and a history of nonmelanoma skin cancer found those who took celecoxib had slightly lower rates of recurrent nonmelanoma skin cancers. Celecoxib may have serious side effects on the heart and blood vessels.             Alpha-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO)      A study of alpha-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) in patients with a history of nonmelanoma skin cancer showed that those who took DFMO had lower rates of nonmelanoma skin cancers coming back than those who took a placebo. DFMO may cause hearing loss which is usually temporary.            Nicotinamide (vitamin B3)      Studies have shown that nicotinamide (vitamin B3) helps prevent new actinic keratoses lesions from forming in people who had four or fewer actinic lesions before taking nicotinamide. More studies are needed to find out if nicotinamide prevents nonmelanoma skin cancer from forming or coming back.
                
                
                    It is not known if the following lower the risk of melanoma:
                    Sunscreen    It has not been proven that using sunscreen to prevent sunburn can protect against melanoma caused by UV radiation. Other risk factors such as having skin that burns easily, having a large number of benign moles, or having atypical nevi may also play a role in whether melanoma forms.       Counseling and protecting the skin from the sun    It is not known if people who receive counseling or information about avoiding sun exposure make changes in their behavior to protect their skin from the sun.

Question: Who is at risk for Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, and Primary Peritoneal Cancer? ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.    - The following are risk factors for ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer:         - Family history of ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer     - Inherited risk     - Hormone replacement therapy     -  Weight and height        - The following are protective factors for ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer:         - Oral contraceptives     - Tubal ligation     - Breastfeeding     - Risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy        - It is not clear whether the following affect the risk of ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer:         - Diet     - Alcohol     - Aspirin and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs     - Smoking     - Talc     - Infertility treatment        - Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.    -  New ways to prevent ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                
                
                    Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.
                    Avoiding cancer risk factors may help prevent certain cancers. Risk factors include smoking, being overweight, and not getting enough exercise. Increasing protective factors such as quitting smoking and exercising may also help prevent some cancers. Talk to your doctor or other health care professional about how you might lower your risk of cancer.
                
                
                    The following are risk factors for ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer:
                    Family history of ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer    A woman whose mother or sister had ovarian cancer has an increased risk of ovarian cancer. A woman with two or more relatives with ovarian cancer also has an increased risk of ovarian cancer.        Inherited risk    The risk of ovarian cancer is increased in women who have inherited certain changes in the BRCA1, BRCA2, or other genes.     The risk of ovarian cancer is also increased in women who have certain inherited syndromes that include:            -  Familial site-specific ovarian cancer syndrome.     -  Familial breast/ovarian cancer syndrome.     -  Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC; Lynch syndrome).              Hormone replacement therapy     The use of estrogen -only hormone replacement therapy (HRT) after menopause is linked to a slightly increased risk of ovarian cancer in women who are taking HRT or have taken HRT within the past 3 years. The risk of ovarian cancer increases the longer a woman uses estrogen-only HRT. When hormone therapy is stopped, the risk of ovarian cancer decreases over time.     It is not clear whether there is an increased risk of ovarian cancer with the use of HRT that has both estrogen and progestin.        Weight and height    Being overweight or obese during the teenage years is linked to an increased risk of ovarian cancer. Being obese is linked to an increased risk of death from ovarian cancer. Being tall (5'8" or taller) may also be linked to a slight increase in the risk of ovarian cancer.
                
                
                    It is not clear whether the following affect the risk of ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer:
                    Diet    Studies of dietary factors including various foods, teas, and nutrients have not found a strong link to ovarian cancer.       Alcohol    Studies have not shown a link between drinking alcohol and the risk of ovarian cancer.       Aspirin and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs    Some studies of aspirin and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have found a decreased risk of ovarian cancer and others have not.        Smoking    Some studies found a very small increased risk of one rare type of ovarian cancer in women who were current smokers compared with women who never smoked.       Talc    Studies of women who used talcum powder (talc) dusted on the perineum (the area between the vagina and the anus) have not found clear evidence of an increased risk of ovarian cancer.        Infertility treatment    Overall, studies in women using fertility drugs have not found clear evidence of an increased risk of ovarian cancer. Risk of ovarian borderline malignant tumors may be higher in women who take fertility drugs. The risk of invasive ovarian cancer may be higher in women who do not get pregnant after taking fertility drugs.

Question: Who is at risk for Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors (Islet Cell Tumors)? ?
Answer: Having certain syndromes can increase the risk of pancreatic NETs. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk.     Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) syndrome is a risk factor for pancreatic NETs.

Question: Who is at risk for Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis? ?
Answer: Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for LCH include the following:         - Having a parent who was exposed to certain chemicals such as benzene.    - Having a parent who was exposed to metal, granite, or wood dust in the workplace.    - A family history of cancer, including LCH.    -  Having infections as a newborn.    - Having a personal history or family history of thyroid disease.    - Smoking, especially in young adults.    - Being Hispanic.

Question: Who is at risk for Laryngeal Cancer? ?
Answer: Use of tobacco products and drinking too much alcohol can affect the risk of laryngeal cancer.Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk.

Question: Who is at risk for Liver (Hepatocellular) Cancer? ?
Answer: Being infected with certain types of the hepatitis virus can cause hepatitis and increase the risk of liver cancer.
                    Hepatitis is most commonly caused by the hepatitis virus. Hepatitis is a disease that causes inflammation (swelling) of the liver. Damage to the liver from hepatitis that lasts a long time can increase the risk of liver cancer.    There are six types of the hepatitis virus. Hepatitis A (HAV), hepatitis B (HBV), and hepatitis C (HCV) are the three most common types. These three viruses cause similar symptoms, but the ways they spread and affect the liver are different.    The Hepatitis A vaccine and the hepatitis B vaccine prevent infection with hepatitis A and hepatitis B. There is no vaccine to prevent infection with hepatitis C. If a person has had one type of hepatitis in the past, it is still possible to get the other types.   Hepatitis viruses include:     Hepatitis A    Hepatitis A is caused by eating food or drinking water infected with hepatitis A virus. It does not lead to chronic disease. People with hepatitis A usually get better without treatment.       Hepatitis B    Hepatitis B is caused by contact with the blood, semen, or other body fluid of a person infected with hepatitis B virus. It is a serious infection that may become chronic and cause scarring of the liver (cirrhosis). This may lead to liver cancer. Blood banks test all donated blood for hepatitis B, which greatly lowers the risk of getting the virus from blood transfusions.       Hepatitis C    Hepatitis C is caused by contact with the blood of a person infected with hepatitis C virus. Hepatitis C may range from a mild illness that lasts a few weeks to a serious, lifelong illness. Most people who have hepatitis C develop a chronic infection that may cause scarring of the liver (cirrhosis). This may lead to liver cancer. Blood banks test all donated blood for hepatitis C, which greatly lowers the risk of getting the virus from blood transfusions.       Hepatitis D    Hepatitis D develops in people already infected with hepatitis B. It is caused by hepatitis D virus (HDV) and is spread through contact with infected blood or dirty needles, or by having unprotected sex with a person infected with HDV. Hepatitis D causes acute hepatitis.       Hepatitis E    Hepatitis E is caused by hepatitis E virus (HEV). Hepatitis E can be spread through oral- anal contact or by drinking infected water. Hepatitis E is rare in the United States.       Hepatitis G    Being infected with hepatitis G virus (HGV) has not been shown to cause liver cancer.
               
               
                    Key Points
                    - Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.    - The following risk factors may increase the risk of liver cancer:         - Hepatitis B and C     - Cirrhosis     - Aflatoxin        - The following protective factor may decrease the risk of liver cancer:         - Hepatitis B vaccine        - Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.     - New ways to prevent liver cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                
                
                    Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.
                    Avoiding cancer risk factors may help prevent certain cancers. Risk factors include smoking, being overweight, and not getting enough exercise. Increasing protective factors such as quitting smoking and exercising may also help prevent some cancers. Talk to your doctor or other health care professional about how you might lower your risk of cancer.
                
                
                    The following risk factors may increase the risk of liver cancer:
                    Hepatitis B and C    Having chronic hepatitis B or chronic hepatitis C increases the risk of developing liver cancer. The risk is even greater for people with both hepatitis B and C. Also, the longer the hepatitis infection lasts (especially hepatitis C), the greater the risk.    In a study of patients with chronic hepatitis C, those who were treated to lower their iron levels by having blood drawn and eating a low-iron diet were less likely to develop liver cancer than those who did not have this treatment.       Cirrhosis    The risk of developing liver cancer is increased for people who have cirrhosis, a disease in which healthy liver tissue is replaced by scar tissue. The scar tissue blocks the flow of blood through the liver and keeps it from working as it should. Chronic alcoholism and chronic hepatitis C are the most common causes of cirrhosis.       Aflatoxin    The risk of developing liver cancer may be increased by eating foods that contain aflatoxin (poison from a fungus that can grow on foods, such as grains and nuts, that have not been stored properly).

Question: Who is at risk for Gastrointestinal Carcinoid Tumors? ?
Answer: Health history can affect the risk of gastrointestinal carcinoid tumors. Anything that increases a person's chance of developing a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk to your doctor if you think you may be at risk.    Risk factors for GI carcinoid tumors include the following:         - Having a family history of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) syndrome or neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) syndrome.     - Having certain conditions that affect the stomach's ability to make stomach acid, such as atrophic gastritis, pernicious anemia, or Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.

Question: Who is at risk for Childhood Extracranial Germ Cell Tumors? ?
Answer: Having certain inherited disorders can increase the risk of an extracranial germ cell tumor. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your childs doctor if you think your child may be at risk.    Possible risk factors for extracranial germ cell tumors include the following:         - Having certain genetic syndromes:               -  Klinefelter syndrome may increase the risk of germ cell tumors in the mediastinum.      - Swyer syndrome may increase the risk of germ cell tumors in the testicles or ovaries.      - Turner syndrome may increase the risk of germ cell tumors in the ovaries.             - Having an undescended testicle may increase the risk of developing a testicular germ cell tumor.

Question: Who is at risk for Small Cell Lung Cancer? ?
Answer: Smoking is the major risk factor for small cell lung cancer. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk to your doctor if you think you may be at risk for lung cancer.    Risk factors for lung cancer include the following:            -  Smoking cigarettes, pipes, or cigars, now or in the past. This is the most important risk factor for lung cancer. The earlier in life a person starts smoking, the more often a person smokes, and the more years a person smokes, the greater the risk of lung cancer.      -  Being exposed to secondhand smoke.     - Being exposed to radiation from any of the following:                  -  Radiation therapy to the breast or chest.       -  Radon in the home or workplace.       -  Imaging tests such as CT scans.       - Atomic bomb radiation.                 -  Being exposed to asbestos, chromium, nickel, beryllium, arsenic, soot, or tar in the workplace.     -  Living where there is air pollution.     -  Having a family history of lung cancer.     -  Being infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).     -  Taking beta carotene supplements and being a heavy smoker.           Older age is the main risk factor for most cancers. The chance of getting cancer increases as you get older.     When smoking is combined with other risk factors, the risk of lung cancer is increased.

Question: Who is at risk for Retinoblastoma? ?
Answer: A child who has heritable retinoblastoma has an increased risk of trilateral retinoblastoma and other cancers. A child with heritable retinoblastoma has an increased risk of a pineal tumor in the brain. When retinoblastoma and a brain tumor occur at the same time, it is called trilateral retinoblastoma. The brain tumor is usually diagnosed between 20 and 36 months of age. Regular screening using MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) may be done for a child thought to have heritable retinoblastoma or for a child with retinoblastoma in one eye and a family history of the disease. CT (computerized tomography) scans are usually not used for routine screening in order to avoid exposing the child to ionizing radiation.    Heritable retinoblastoma also increases the child's risk of other types of cancer such as lung cancer, bladder cancer, or melanoma in later years. Regular follow-up exams are important.

Question: Who is at risk for Skin Cancer? ?
Answer: Skin color and being exposed to sunlight can increase the risk of nonmelanoma skin cancer and actinic keratosis. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma include the following:         - Being exposed to natural sunlight or artificial sunlight (such as from tanning beds) over long periods of time.     - Having a fair complexion, which includes the following:                - Fair skin that freckles and burns easily, does not tan, or tans poorly.       - Blue or green or other light-colored eyes.       - Red or blond hair.             - Having actinic keratosis.     - Past treatment with radiation.    - Having a weakened immune system.     - Having certain changes in the genes that are linked to skin cancer.    - Being exposed to arsenic.

Question: Who is at risk for Salivary Gland Cancer? ?
Answer: Being exposed to certain types of radiation may increase the risk of salivary cancer. Anything that increases the chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Although the cause of most salivary gland cancers is not known, risk factors include the following:         - Older age.    - Treatment with radiation therapy to the head and neck.    - Being exposed to certain substances at work.

Question: Who is at risk for Parathyroid Cancer? ?
Answer: Having certain inherited disorders can increase the risk of developing parathyroid cancer. Anything that increases the chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Risk factors for parathyroid cancer include the following rare disorders that are inherited (passed down from parent to child):          -  Familial isolated hyperparathyroidism (FIHP).    -  Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) syndrome.        Treatment with radiation therapy may increase the risk of developing a parathyroid adenoma.

Question: Who is at risk for Colorectal Cancer? ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.    - The following risk factors increase the risk of colorectal cancer:         - Age     - Family history of colorectal cancer     - Personal history     - Inherited risk     - Alcohol     - Cigarette smoking     - Obesity        - The following protective factors decrease the risk of colorectal cancer:         - Physical activity     - Aspirin     - Combination hormone replacement therapy      - Polyp removal        - It is not clear if the following affect the risk of colorectal cancer:         - Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) other than aspirin     - Calcium     - Diet        - The following factors do not affect the risk of colorectal cancer:         - Hormone replacement therapy with estrogen only     - Statins        - Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.    - New ways to prevent colorectal cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                
                
                    Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.
                    Avoiding cancer risk factors may help prevent certain cancers. Risk factors include smoking, being overweight, and not getting enough exercise. Increasing protective factors such as quitting smoking and exercising may also help prevent some cancers. Talk to your doctor or other health care professional about how you might lower your risk of cancer.
                
                
                    The following risk factors increase the risk of colorectal cancer:
                    Age    The risk of colorectal cancer increases after age 50. Most cases of colorectal cancer are diagnosed after age 50.       Family history of colorectal cancer    Having a parent, brother, sister, or child with colorectal cancer doubles a person's risk of colorectal cancer.       Personal history    Having a personal history of the following conditions increases the risk of colorectal cancer:             - Previous colorectal cancer.     - High-risk adenomas (colorectal polyps that are 1 centimeter or larger in size or that have cells that look abnormal under a microscope).     -  Ovarian cancer.     -  Inflammatory bowel disease (such as ulcerative colitis or Crohn disease).              Inherited risk    The risk of colorectal cancer is increased when certain gene changes linked to familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) or hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC or Lynch Syndrome) are inherited.       Alcohol    Drinking 3 or more alcoholic beverages per day increases the risk of colorectal cancer. Drinking alcohol is also linked to the risk of forming large colorectal adenomas (benign tumors).       Cigarette smoking    Cigarette smoking is linked to an increased risk of colorectal cancer and death from colorectal cancer.    Smoking cigarettes is also linked to an increased risk of forming colorectal adenomas. Cigarette smokers who have had surgery to remove colorectal adenomas are at an increased risk for the adenomas to recur (come back).       Obesity     Obesity is linked to an increased risk of colorectal cancer and death from colorectal cancer.
                
                
                    It is not clear if the following affect the risk of colorectal cancer:
                    Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) other than aspirin    It is not known if the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or NSAIDs (such as sulindac, celecoxib, naproxen, and ibuprofen) lowers the risk of colorectal cancer.     Studies have shown that taking the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug celecoxib reduces the risk of colorectal adenomas (benign tumors) coming back after they have been removed. It is not clear if this results in a lower risk of colorectal cancer.     Taking sulindac or celecoxib has been shown to reduce the number and size of polyps that form in the colon and rectum of people with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). It is not clear if this results in a lower risk of colorectal cancer.    The possible harms of NSAIDs include:            -  Kidney problems.     - Bleeding in the stomach, intestines, or brain.     - Heart problems such as heart attack and congestive heart failure.              Calcium    It is not known if taking calcium supplements lowers the risk of colorectal cancer.        Diet    It is not known if a diet low in fat and meat and high in fiber, fruits, and vegetables lowers the risk of colorectal cancer.     Some studies have shown that a diet high in fat, proteins, calories, and meat increases the risk of colorectal cancer, but other studies have not.
                
                
                    The following factors do not affect the risk of colorectal cancer:
                    Hormone replacement therapy with estrogen only    Hormone replacement therapy with estrogen only does not lower the risk of having invasive colorectal cancer or the risk of dying from colorectal cancer.       Statins    Studies have shown that taking statins (drugs that lower cholesterol) does not increase or decrease the risk of colorectal cancer.

Question: Who is at risk for Lung Cancer? ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent lung cancer.    - The following are risk factors for lung cancer:         - Cigarette, cigar, and pipe smoking      - Secondhand smoke     - Family history     - HIV infection     - Environmental risk factors     - Beta carotene supplements in heavy smokers        - The following are protective factors for lung cancer:         - Not smoking     - Quitting smoking     - Lower exposure to workplace risk factors      - Lower exposure to radon        - It is not clear if the following decrease the risk of lung cancer:         - Diet     - Physical activity        - The following do not decrease the risk of lung cancer:         - Beta carotene supplements in nonsmokers     - Vitamin E supplements         - Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.    -  New ways to prevent lung cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                
                
                    Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent lung cancer.
                    Avoiding cancer risk factors may help prevent certain cancers. Risk factors include smoking, being overweight, and not getting enough exercise. Increasing protective factors such as quitting smoking and exercising may also help prevent some cancers. Talk to your doctor or other health care professional about how you might lower your risk of cancer.
                
                
                    The following are risk factors for lung cancer:
                    Cigarette, cigar, and pipe smoking      Tobacco smoking is the most important risk factor for lung cancer. Cigarette, cigar, and pipe smoking all increase the risk of lung cancer. Tobacco smoking causes about 9 out of 10 cases of lung cancer in men and about 8 out of 10 cases of lung cancer in women.    Studies have shown that smoking low tar or low nicotine cigarettes does not lower the risk of lung cancer.     Studies also show that the risk of lung cancer from smoking cigarettes increases with the number of cigarettes smoked per day and the number of years smoked. People who smoke have about 20 times the risk of lung cancer compared to those who do not smoke.       Secondhand smoke    Being exposed to secondhand tobacco smoke is also a risk factor for lung cancer. Secondhand smoke is the smoke that comes from a burning cigarette or other tobacco product, or that is exhaled by smokers. People who inhale secondhand smoke are exposed to the same cancer -causing agents as smokers, although in smaller amounts. Inhaling secondhand smoke is called involuntary or passive smoking.       Family history    Having a family history of lung cancer is a risk factor for lung cancer. People with a relative who has had lung cancer may be twice as likely to have lung cancer as people who do not have a relative who has had lung cancer. Because cigarette smoking tends to run in families and family members are exposed to secondhand smoke, it is hard to know whether the increased risk of lung cancer is from the family history of lung cancer or from being exposed to cigarette smoke.       HIV infection    Being infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the cause of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), is linked with a higher risk of lung cancer. People infected with HIV may have more than twice the risk of lung cancer than those who are not infected. Since smoking rates are higher in those infected with HIV than in those not infected, it is not clear whether the increased risk of lung cancer is from HIV infection or from being exposed to cigarette smoke.        Environmental risk factors            -   Radiation exposure: Being exposed to radiation is a risk factor for lung cancer. Atomic bomb radiation, radiation therapy, imaging tests, and radon are sources of radiation exposure:                   - Atomic bomb radiation: Being exposed to radiation after an atomic bomb explosion increases the risk of lung cancer.       - Radiation therapy: Radiation therapy to the chest may be used to treat certain cancers, including breast cancer and Hodgkin lymphoma. Radiation therapy uses x-rays, gamma rays, or other types of radiation that may increase the risk of lung cancer. The higher the dose of radiation received, the higher the risk. The risk of lung cancer following radiation therapy is higher in patients who smoke than in nonsmokers.       - Imaging tests: Imaging tests, such as CT scans, expose patients to radiation. Low-dose spiral CT scans expose patients to less radiation than higher dose CT scans. In lung cancer screening, the use of low-dose spiral CT scans can lessen the harmful effects of radiation.       - Radon: Radon is a radioactive gas that comes from the breakdown of uranium in rocks and soil. It seeps up through the ground, and leaks into the air or water supply. Radon can enter homes through cracks in floors, walls, or the foundation, and levels of radon can build up over time.             Studies show that high levels of radon gas inside the home or workplace increase the number of new cases of lung cancer and the number of deaths caused by lung cancer. The risk of lung cancer is higher in smokers exposed to radon than in nonsmokers who are exposed to it. In people who have never smoked, about 30% of deaths caused by lung cancer have been linked to being exposed to radon.     -  Workplace exposure: Studies show that being exposed to the following substances increases the risk of lung cancer:                  -  Asbestos.       -  Arsenic.       - Chromium.       - Nickel.       - Beryllium.       -  Cadmium.       - Tar and soot.            These substances can cause lung cancer in people who are exposed to them in the workplace and have never smoked. As the level of exposure to these substances increases, the risk of lung cancer also increases. The risk of lung cancer is even higher in people who are exposed and also smoke.      -  Air pollution: Studies show that living in areas with higher levels of air pollution increases the risk of lung cancer.              Beta carotene supplements in heavy smokers    Taking beta carotene supplements (pills) increases the risk of lung cancer, especially in smokers who smoke one or more packs a day. The risk is higher in smokers who have at least one alcoholic drink every day.
                
                
                    The following are protective factors for lung cancer:
                    Not smoking    The best way to prevent lung cancer is to not smoke.       Quitting smoking    Smokers can decrease their risk of lung cancer by quitting. In smokers who have been treated for lung cancer, quitting smoking lowers the risk of new lung cancers. Counseling, the use of nicotine replacement products, and antidepressant therapy have helped smokers quit for good.    In a person who has quit smoking, the chance of preventing lung cancer depends on how many years and how much the person smoked and the length of time since quitting. After a person has quit smoking for 10 years, the risk of lung cancer decreases 30% to 50%.    See the following for more information on quitting smoking:            -  Tobacco (includes help with quitting)     -  Cigarette Smoking: Health Risks and How to Quit               Lower exposure to workplace risk factors     Laws that protect workers from being exposed to cancer-causing substances, such as asbestos, arsenic, nickel, and chromium, may help lower their risk of developing lung cancer. Laws that prevent smoking in the workplace help lower the risk of lung cancer caused by secondhand smoke.       Lower exposure to radon     Lowering radon levels may lower the risk of lung cancer, especially among cigarette smokers. High levels of radon in homes may be reduced by taking steps to prevent radon leakage, such as sealing basements.
                
                
                    It is not clear if the following decrease the risk of lung cancer:
                    Diet     Some studies show that people who eat high amounts of fruits or vegetables have a lower risk of lung cancer than those who eat low amounts. However, since smokers tend to have less healthy diets than nonsmokers, it is hard to know whether the decreased risk is from having a healthy diet or from not smoking.       Physical activity    Some studies show that people who are physically active have a lower risk of lung cancer than people who are not. However, since smokers tend to have different levels of physical activity than nonsmokers, it is hard to know if physical activity affects the risk of lung cancer.
                
                
                    The following do not decrease the risk of lung cancer:
                    Beta carotene supplements in nonsmokers    Studies of nonsmokers show that taking beta carotene supplements does not lower their risk of lung cancer.       Vitamin E supplements      Studies show that taking vitamin E supplements does not affect the risk of lung cancer.
                
                
                    Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.
                    Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to lower the risk of developing certain types of cancer. Some cancer prevention trials are conducted with healthy people who have not had cancer but who have an increased risk for cancer. Other prevention trials are conducted with people who have had cancer and are trying to prevent another cancer of the same type or to lower their chance of developing a new type of cancer. Other trials are done with healthy volunteers who are not known to have any risk factors for cancer.    The purpose of some cancer prevention clinical trials is to find out whether actions people take can prevent cancer. These may include eating fruits and vegetables, exercising, quitting smoking, or taking certain medicines, vitamins, minerals, or food supplements.
                
                
                    New ways to prevent lung cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                    Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about clinical trials can be found in the Clinical Trials section of the NCI website. Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials for prevention trials for non-small cell lung cancer and small cell lung cancer that are now accepting patients. These include trials for quitting smoking.

Question: Who is at risk for Adult Primary Liver Cancer? ?
Answer: Having hepatitis or cirrhosis can affect the risk of adult primary liver cancer. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk.    The following are risk factors for adult primary liver cancer:         - Having hepatitis B or hepatitis C. Having both hepatitis B and hepatitis C increases the risk even more.    -  Having cirrhosis, which can be caused by:               -  hepatitis (especially hepatitis C); or       - drinking large amounts of alcohol for many years or being an alcoholic.              - Having metabolic syndrome, a set of conditions that occur together, including extra fat around the abdomen, high blood sugar, high blood pressure, high levels of triglycerides and low levels of high-density lipoproteins in the blood.     - Having liver injury that is long-lasting, especially if it leads to cirrhosis.    - Having hemochromatosis, a condition in which the body takes up and stores more iron than it needs. The extra iron is stored in the liver, heart, and pancreas     - Eating foods tainted with aflatoxin (poison from a fungus that can grow on foods, such as grains and nuts, that have not been stored properly).

Question: Who is at risk for Oropharyngeal Cancer? ?
Answer: Smoking or being infected with human papillomavirus can increase the risk of oropharyngeal cancer. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk.   The most common risk factors for oropharyngeal cancer include the following:         - A history of smoking cigarettes for more than 10 pack years and other tobacco use.    - Personal history of head and neck cancer.    - Heavy alcohol use.    - Being infected with human papillomavirus (HPV), especially HPV type 16. The number of cases of oropharyngeal cancers linked to HPV infection is increasing.    - Chewing betel quid, a stimulant commonly used in parts of Asia.

Question: Who is at risk for Childhood Craniopharyngioma? ?
Answer: There are no known risk factors for childhood craniopharyngioma. Craniopharyngiomas are rare in children younger than 2 years of age and are most often diagnosed in children aged 5 to 14 years. It is not known what causes these tumors.

Question: Who is at risk for Rectal Cancer? ?
Answer: Health history affects the risk of developing rectal cancer. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk to your doctor if you think you may be at risk for colorectal cancer.    Risk factors for colorectal cancer include the following:            - Having a family history of colon or rectal cancer in a first-degree relative (parent, sibling, or child).     - Having a personal history of cancer of the colon, rectum, or ovary.     - Having a personal history of high-risk adenomas (colorectal polyps that are 1 centimeter or larger in size or that have cells that look abnormal under a microscope).     - Having inherited changes in certain genes that increase the risk of familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) or Lynch syndrome (hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer).     - Having a personal history of chronic ulcerative colitis or Crohn disease for 8 years or more.     - Having three or more alcoholic drinks per day.     - Smoking cigarettes.     - Being black.     - Being obese.           Older age is a main risk factor for most cancers. The chance of getting cancer increases as you get older.

Question: Who is at risk for Prostate Cancer? ?
Answer: Prostate cancer is most common in older men. In the U.S., about one out of five men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer. Most men diagnosed with prostate cancer do not die of it.    See the following PDQ summaries for more information about prostate cancer:         -  Prostate Cancer Screening     -  Prostate Cancer Treatment

Question: Who is at risk for Prostate Cancer? ?
Answer: Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.
                    Avoiding cancer risk factors may help prevent certain cancers. Risk factors include smoking, being overweight, and not getting enough exercise. Increasing protective factors such as quitting smoking and exercising may also help prevent some cancers. Talk to your doctor or other health care professional about how you might lower your risk of cancer.
                
                
                    The following risk factors may increase the risk of prostate cancer:
                    Age      Prostate cancer is rare in men younger than 50 years of age. The chance of developing prostate cancer increases as men get older.       Family history of prostate cancer     A man whose father, brother, or son has had prostate cancer has a higher-than-average risk of prostate cancer.       Race     Prostate cancer occurs more often in African-American men than in white men. African-American men with prostate cancer are more likely to die from the disease than white men with prostate cancer.       Hormones    The prostate needs male hormones to work the way it should. The main male sex hormone is testosterone. Testosterone helps the body develop and maintain male sex characteristics.    Testosterone is changed into dihydrotestosterone (DHT) by an enzyme in the body. DHT is important for normal prostate growth but can also cause the prostate to get bigger and may play a part in the development of prostate cancer.       Vitamin E    The Selenium and Vitamin E Cancer Prevention Trial (SELECT) found that vitamin E taken alone increased the risk of prostate cancer. The risk continued even after the men stopped taking vitamin E.       Folic acid    Folate is a kind of vitamin B that occurs naturally in some foods, such as green vegetables, beans and orange juice. Folic acid is a man-made form of folate that is found in vitamin supplements and fortified foods, such as whole-grain breads and cereals. A 10-year study showed that the risk of prostate cancer was increased in men who took 1 milligram (mg) supplements of folic acid. However, the risk of prostate cancer was lower in men who had enough folate in their diets.       Dairy and calcium    A diet high in dairy foods and calcium may cause a small increase in the risk of prostate cancer.
                
                
                    The following protective factors may decrease the risk of prostate cancer:
                    Folate    Folate is a kind of vitamin B that occurs naturally in some foods, such as green vegetables, beans and orange juice. Folic acid is a man-made form of folate that is found in vitamin supplements and fortified foods, such as whole-grain breads and cereals. A 10-year study showed that the risk of prostate cancer was lower in men who had enough folate in their diets. However, the risk of prostate cancer was increased in men who took 1 milligram (mg) supplements of folic acid.       Finasteride and Dutasteride     Finasteride and dutasteride are drugs used to lower the amount of male sex hormones made by the body. These drugs block the enzyme that changes testosterone into dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Higher than normal levels of DHT may play a part in developing prostate cancer. Taking finasteride or dutasteride has been shown to lower the risk for prostate cancer, but it is not known if these drugs lower the risk of death from prostate cancer.    The Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial (PCPT) studied whether the drug finasteride can prevent prostate cancer in healthy men 55 years of age and older. This prevention study showed there were fewer prostate cancers in the group of men that took finasteride compared with the group of men that did not. Also, the men who took finasteride who did have prostate cancer had more aggressive tumors. The number of deaths from prostate cancer was the same in both groups. Men who took finasteride reported more side effects compared with the group of men that did not, including erectile dysfunction, loss of desire for sex, and enlarged breasts.    The Reduction by Dutasteride of Prostate Cancer Events Trial (REDUCE) studied whether the drug dutasteride can prevent prostate cancer in men aged 50 to 75 years at higher risk for the disease. This prevention study showed there were fewer prostate cancers in the group of men who took dutasteride compared with the group of men that did not. The number of less aggressive prostate cancers was lower, but the number of more aggressive prostate cancers was not. Men who took dutasteride reported more side effects than men who did not, including erectile dysfunction, loss of desire for sex, less semen, and gynecomastia (enlarged breasts).
                
                
                    The following have been proven not to affect the risk of prostate cancer, or their effects on prostate cancer risk are not known:
                    Selenium and vitamin E    The Selenium and Vitamin E Cancer Prevention Trial (SELECT) studied whether taking vitamin E and selenium (a mineral) will prevent prostate cancer. The selenium and vitamin E were taken separately or together by healthy men 55 years of age and older (50 years of age and older for African-American men). The study showed that taking selenium alone or selenium and vitamin E together did not decrease the risk of prostate cancer.       Diet    It is not known if decreasing fat or increasing fruits and vegetables in the diet helps decrease the risk of prostate cancer or death from prostate cancer. In the PCPT trial, certain fatty acids increased the risk of high-grade prostate cancer while others decreased the risk of high-grade prostate cancer.       Multivitamins    Regular use of multivitamins has not been proven to increase the risk of early or localized prostate cancer. However, a large study showed an increased risk of advanced prostate cancer among men who took multivitamins more than seven times a week.       Lycopene    Some studies have shown that a diet high in lycopene may be linked to a decreased risk of prostate cancer, but other studies have not. It has not been proven that taking lycopene supplements decreases the risk of prostate cancer.

Question: Who is at risk for Extragonadal Germ Cell Tumors? ?
Answer: Age and gender can affect the risk of extragonadal germ cell tumors. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for malignant extragonadal germ cell tumors include the following:         - Being male.    - Being age 20 or older.    - Having Klinefelter syndrome.

Question: Who is at risk for Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia and Other Myeloid Malignancies? ?
Answer: The risk factors for childhood AML, childhood CML, JMML, and MDS are similar. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your childs doctor if you think your child may be at risk. These and other factors may increase the risk of childhood AML, childhood CML, JMML, and MDS:         - Having a brother or sister, especially a twin, with leukemia.    - Being Hispanic.    - Being exposed to cigarette smoke or alcohol before birth.     - Having a personal history of aplastic anemia.    - Having a personal or family history of MDS.    - Having a family history of AML.    - Past treatment with chemotherapy or radiation therapy.    - Being exposed to ionizing radiation or chemicals such as benzene.    - Having certain genetic disorders, such as:               - Down syndrome.      -  Fanconi anemia.      -  Neurofibromatosis type 1.      -  Noonan syndrome.      -  Shwachman-Diamond syndrome.

Question: Who is at risk for Gallbladder Cancer? ?
Answer: Being female can increase the risk of developing gallbladder cancer. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for gallbladder cancer include the following:         - Being female.    - Being Native American.

Question: Who is at risk for Childhood Central Nervous System Atypical Teratoid/Rhabdoid Tumor? ?
Answer: Certain genetic changes may increase the risk of atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor. Anything that increases the risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your child's doctor if you think your child may be at risk.   Atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor may be linked to changes in the tumor suppressor genes SMARCB1 or SMARCA4. Genes of this type make a protein that helps control cell growth. Changes in the DNA of tumor suppressor genes like SMARCB1 or SMARCA4 may lead to cancer.   Changes in the SMARCB1 or SMARCA4 genes may be inherited (passed on from parents to offspring). When this gene change is inherited, tumors may form in two parts of the body at the same time (for example, in the brain and the kidney). For patients with AT/RT, genetic counseling (a discussion with a trained professional about inherited diseases and a possible need for gene testing) may be recommended.

Question: Who is at risk for Merkel Cell Carcinoma? ?
Answer: un exposure and having a weak immune system can affect the risk of Merkel cell carcinoma. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for Merkel cell carcinoma include the following:         - Being exposed to a lot of natural sunlight.    - Being exposed to artificial sunlight, such as from tanning beds or psoralen and ultraviolet A (PUVA) therapy for psoriasis.    -  Having an immune system weakened by disease, such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia or HIV infection.     - Taking drugs that make the immune system less active, such as after an organ transplant.    -  Having a history of other types of cancer.    - Being older than 50 years, male, or white.

Question: Who is at risk for Melanoma? ?
Answer: Unusual moles, exposure to sunlight, and health history can affect the risk of melanoma. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk.    Risk factors for melanoma include the following:         - Having a fair complexion, which includes the following:                - Fair skin that freckles and burns easily, does not tan, or tans poorly.       - Blue or green or other light-colored eyes.       - Red or blond hair.              - Being exposed to natural sunlight or artificial sunlight (such as from tanning beds) over long periods of time.     - Being exposed to certain factors in the environment (in the air, your home or workplace, and your food and water). Some of the environmental risk factors for melanoma are radiation, solvents, vinyl chloride, and PCBs.     - Having a history of many blistering sunburns, especially as a child or teenager.     - Having several large or many small moles.    - Having a family history of unusual moles (atypical nevus syndrome).     - Having a family or personal history of melanoma.     - Being white.     - Having a weakened immune system.    - Having certain changes in the genes that are linked to melanoma.        Being white or having a fair complexion increases the risk of melanoma, but anyone can have melanoma, including people with dark skin.    See the following PDQ summaries for more information on risk factors for melanoma:         -  Genetics of Skin Cancer     -  Skin Cancer Prevention

Question: Who is at risk for Childhood Liver Cancer? ?
Answer: Certain diseases and disorders can increase the risk of childhood liver cancer. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your childs doctor if you think your child may be at risk.    Risk factors for hepatoblastoma include the following syndromes or conditions:         -  Aicardi syndrome.    -  Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome.    -  Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP).    -  Glycogen storage disease.    - A very low weight at birth.    - Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome.    - Certain genetic changes, such as Trisomy 18.        Risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma include the following syndromes or conditions:         -  Alagille syndrome.    -  Glycogen storage disease.    -  Hepatitis B virus infection that was passed from mother to child at birth.    -  Progressive familial intrahepatic disease.    -  Tyrosinemia.        Some patients with tyrosinemia or progressive familial intrahepatic disease will have a liver transplant before there are signs or symptoms of cancer.

Question: Who is at risk for Endometrial Cancer? ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.    - The following risk factors increase the risk of endometrial cancer:          - Endometrial hyperplasia     - Estrogen     - Tamoxifen     - Obesity, weight gain, metabolic syndrome, and diabetes     - Genetic factors        - The following protective factors decrease the risk of endometrial cancer:         - Pregnancy and breast-feeding     - Combination oral contraceptives     - Physical activity     - Cigarette smoking        - It is not known if the following factors affect the risk of endometrial cancer:         - Weight loss     - Fruits, vegetables, and vitamins        - Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.    - New ways to prevent endometrial cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                
                
                    Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.
                    Avoiding cancer risk factors may help prevent certain cancers. Risk factors include smoking, being overweight, and not getting enough exercise. Increasing protective factors such as quitting smoking and exercising may also help prevent some cancers. Talk to your doctor or other health care professional about how you might lower your risk of cancer.
                
                
                    The following risk factors increase the risk of endometrial cancer:
                    Endometrial hyperplasia     Endometrial hyperplasia is an abnormal thickening of the endometrium (lining of the uterus). It is not cancer, but in some cases, it may lead to endometrial cancer.        Estrogen     Estrogen is a hormone made by the body. It helps the body develop and maintain female sex characteristics. Estrogen can affect the growth of some cancers, including endometrial cancer.     A woman's risk of developing endometrial cancer is increased by being exposed to estrogen in the following ways:            - Estrogen-only hormone replacement therapy: Estrogen may be given to replace the estrogen no longer produced by the ovaries in postmenopausal women or women whose ovaries have been removed. This is called hormone replacement therapy (HRT), or hormone therapy (HT). The use of HRT that contains only estrogen increases the risk of endometrial cancer and endometrial hyperplasia. For this reason, estrogen therapy alone is usually prescribed only for women who do not have a uterus. HRT that contains only estrogen also increases the risk of stroke and blood clots. When estrogen is combined with progestin (another hormone), it is called combination estrogen-progestin replacement therapy. For postmenopausal women, taking estrogen in combination with progestin does not increase the risk of endometrial cancer, but it does increase the risk of breast cancer. (See the Breast Cancer Prevention summary for more information.)     - Early menstruation: Beginning to have menstrual periods at an early age increases the number of years the body is exposed to estrogen and increases a woman's risk of endometrial cancer.     - Late menopause: Women who reach menopause at an older age are exposed to estrogen for a longer time and have an increased risk of endometrial cancer.     - Never being pregnant: Because estrogen levels are lower during pregnancy, women who have never been pregnant are exposed to estrogen for a longer time than women who have been pregnant. This increases the risk of endometrial cancer.               Tamoxifen     Tamoxifen is one of a group of drugs called selective estrogen receptor modulators, or SERMs. Tamoxifen acts like estrogen on some tissues in the body, such as the uterus, but blocks the effects of estrogen on other tissues, such as the breast. Tamoxifen is used to prevent breast cancer in women who are at high risk for the disease. However, using tamoxifen for more than 2 years increases the risk of endometrial cancer. This risk is greater in postmenopausal women.      Raloxifene is a SERM that is used to prevent bone weakness in postmenopausal women. However, it does not have estrogen-like effects on the uterus and has not been shown to increase the risk of endometrial cancer.        Obesity, weight gain, metabolic syndrome, and diabetes     Obesity, gaining weight as an adult, or having metabolic syndrome increases the risk of endometrial cancer. Obesity is related to other risk factors such as high estrogen levels, having extra fat around the waist, polycystic ovary syndrome, and lack of physical activity.    Having metabolic syndrome increases the risk of endometrial cancer. Metabolic syndrome is a condition that includes extra fat around the waist, high blood sugar, high blood pressure, and high levels of triglycerides (a type of fat) in the blood.        Genetic factors     Hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC) syndrome (also known as Lynch Syndrome) is an inherited disorder caused by changes in certain genes. Women who have HNPCC syndrome have a much higher risk of developing endometrial cancer than women who do not have HNPCC syndrome.    Polycystic ovary syndrome (a disorder of the hormones made by the ovaries), and Cowden syndrome are inherited conditions that are linked to an increased risk of endometrial cancer.    Women with a family history of endometrial cancer in a first-degree relative (mother, sister, or daughter) are also at increased risk of endometrial cancer.
                
                
                    It is not known if the following factors affect the risk of endometrial cancer:
                    Weight loss    It is not known if losing weight decreases the risk of endometrial cancer.       Fruits, vegetables, and vitamins    A diet that includes, fruits, vegetables, phytoestrogen, soy, and vitamin D has not been found to affect the risk of endometrial cancer.     Taking multivitamins has little or no effect on the risk of common cancers, including endometrial cancer.

Question: Who is at risk for Breast Cancer? ?
Answer: Different factors increase or decrease the risk of breast cancer. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Anything that decreases your chance of getting a disease is called a protective factor.    For information about risk factors and protective factors for breast cancer, see the PDQ summary on Breast Cancer Prevention.

Question: Who is at risk for Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, and Primary Peritoneal Cancer? ?
Answer: Different factors increase or decrease the risk of getting ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer.
	                    	Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Anything that decreases your chance of getting a disease is called a protective factor.   For information about risk factors and protective factors for ovarian cancer, see the Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, and Primary Peritoneal Cancer Prevention summary.   Talk to your doctor about your risk of ovarian cancer.
	                	
                		
		                    Screening tests have risks.
		                    Decisions about screening tests can be difficult. Not all screening tests are helpful and most have risks. Before having any screening test, you may want to talk about the test with your doctor. It is important to know the risks of the test and whether it has been proven to reduce the risk of dying from cancer.
		                
		                
		                    The risks of ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer screening tests include the following:
		                    Finding ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer may not improve health or help a woman live longer.    Screening may not improve your health or help you live longer if you have advanced ovarian cancer or if it has already spread to other places in your body.        False-negative test results can occur.    Screening test results may appear to be normal even though ovarian cancer is present. A woman who receives a false-negative test result (one that shows there is no cancer when there really is) may delay seeking medical care even if she has symptoms.       False-positive test results can occur.     Screening test results may appear to be abnormal even though no cancer is present. A false-positive test result (one that shows there is cancer when there really isn't) can cause anxiety and is usually followed by more tests (such as a laparoscopy or a laparotomy to see if cancer is present), which also have risks. Problems caused by tests used to diagnose ovarian cancer include infection, blood loss, bowel injury, and heart and blood vessel problems. A false-positive test result can also lead to an unneeded oophorectomy (removal of one or both ovaries).

Question: Who is at risk for Childhood Central Nervous System Embryonal Tumors? ?
Answer: Certain genetic conditions increase the risk of childhood CNS embryonal tumors. Anything that increases the risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your childs doctor if you think your child may be at risk.    Risk factors for CNS embryonal tumors include having the following inherited diseases:         -  Turcot syndrome.    -  Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome.    -  Nevoid basal cell carcinoma (Gorlin) syndrome.    -  Li-Fraumeni syndrome.    -  Fanconi anemia.        In most cases, the cause of CNS embryonal tumors is not known.

Question: Who is at risk for Gestational Trophoblastic Disease? ?
Answer: Age and a previous molar pregnancy affect the risk of GTD. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk to your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for GTD include the following:         - Being pregnant when you are younger than 20 or older than 35 years of age.     - Having a personal history of hydatidiform mole.

Question: Who is at risk for Male Breast Cancer? ?
Answer: Radiation exposure, high levels of estrogen, and a family history of breast cancer can increase a mans risk of breast cancer. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for breast cancer in men may include the following:         - Being exposed to radiation.     - Having a disease linked to high levels of estrogen in the body, such as cirrhosis (liver disease) or Klinefelter syndrome (a genetic disorder.)    - Having several female relatives who have had breast cancer, especially relatives who have an alteration of the BRCA2 gene.

Question: Who is at risk for Anal Cancer? ?
Answer: Being infected with the human papillomavirus (HPV) increases the risk of developing anal cancer. Risk factors include the following:         - Being infected with human papillomavirus (HPV).    - Having many sexual partners.    - Having receptive anal intercourse (anal sex).    - Being older than 50 years.    - Frequent anal redness, swelling, and soreness.     - Having anal fistulas (abnormal openings).    - Smoking cigarettes.

Question: Who is at risk for Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer? ?
Answer: Tobacco and alcohol use can affect the risk of lip and oral cavity cancer. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for lip and oral cavity cancer include the following:         - Using tobacco products.    - Heavy alcohol use.    - Being exposed to natural sunlight or artificial sunlight (such as from tanning beds) over long periods of time.    - Being male.

Question: Who is at risk for Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity Cancer? ?
Answer: Being exposed to certain chemicals or dust in the workplace can increase the risk of paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer include the following:          - Being exposed to certain workplace chemicals or dust, such as those found in the following jobs:               - Furniture-making.      - Sawmill work.      - Woodworking (carpentry).      - Shoemaking.      - Metal-plating.      - Flour mill or bakery work.             - Being infected with human papillomavirus (HPV).    - Being male and older than 40 years.    - Smoking.

Question: Who is at risk for Breast Cancer? ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.    - The following are risk factors for breast cancer:         - Older age     - A personal history of breast cancer or benign (noncancer) breast disease     - Inherited risk of breast cancer     - Dense breasts     - Exposure of breast tissue to estrogen made in the body     - Taking hormone therapy for symptoms of menopause      - Radiation therapy to the breast or chest     - Obesity     - Drinking alcohol         - The following are protective factors for breast cancer:         - Less exposure of breast tissue to estrogen made by the body     - Taking estrogen-only hormone therapy after hysterectomy, selective estrogen receptor modulators, or aromatase inhibitors and inactivators             - Estrogen-only hormone therapy after hysterectomy       - Selective estrogen receptor modulators       - Aromatase inhibitors and inactivators           -  Risk-reducing mastectomy      - Ovarian ablation     - Getting enough exercise        - It is not clear whether the following affect the risk of breast cancer:         - Oral contraceptives     - Environment        - Studies have shown that some factors do not affect the risk of breast cancer.    - Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.    - New ways to prevent breast cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                
                
                    Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.
                    Avoiding cancer risk factors may help prevent certain cancers. Risk factors include smoking, being overweight, and not getting enough exercise. Increasing protective factors such as quitting smoking and exercising may also help prevent some cancers. Talk to your doctor or other health care professional about how you might lower your risk of cancer.    NCI's Breast Cancer Risk Assessment Tool uses a woman's risk factors to estimate her risk for breast cancer during the next five years and up to age 90. This online tool is meant to be used by a health care provider. For more information on breast cancer risk, call 1-800-4-CANCER.
                
                
                    The following are risk factors for breast cancer:
                    Older age    Older age is the main risk factor for most cancers. The chance of getting cancer increases as you get older.        A personal history of breast cancer or benign (noncancer) breast disease    Women with any of the following have an increased risk of breast cancer:            - A personal history of invasive breast cancer, ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), or lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS).     - A personal history of benign (noncancer) breast disease.              Inherited risk of breast cancer    Women with a family history of breast cancer in a first-degree relative (mother, sister, or daughter) have an increased risk of breast cancer.    Women who have inherited changes in the  BRCA1  and  BRCA2  genes or in certain other genes have a higher risk of breast cancer. The risk of breast cancer caused by inherited gene changes depends on the type of gene mutation, family history of cancer, and other factors.        Dense breasts    Having breast tissue that is dense on a mammogram is a factor in breast cancer risk. The level of risk depends on how dense the breast tissue is. Women with very dense breasts have a higher risk of breast cancer than women with low breast density.    Increased breast density is often an inherited trait, but it may also occur in women who have not had children, have a first pregnancy late in life, take postmenopausal hormones, or drink alcohol.       Exposure of breast tissue to estrogen made in the body     Estrogen is a hormone made by the body. It helps the body develop and maintain female sex characteristics. Being exposed to estrogen over a long time may increase the risk of breast cancer. Estrogen levels are highest during the years a woman is menstruating.     A woman's exposure to estrogen is increased in the following ways:            -  Early menstruation: Beginning to have menstrual periods at age 11 or younger increases the number of years the breast tissue is exposed to estrogen.     -  Starting menopause at a later age: The more years a woman menstruates, the longer her breast tissue is exposed to estrogen.     -  Older age at first birth or never having given birth: Because estrogen levels are lower during pregnancy, breast tissue is exposed to more estrogen in women who become pregnant for the first time after age 35 or who never become pregnant.              Taking hormone therapy for symptoms of menopause     Hormones, such as estrogen and progesterone, can be made into a pill form in a laboratory. Estrogen, progestin, or both may be given to replace the estrogen no longer made by the ovaries in postmenopausal women or women who have had their ovaries removed. This is called hormone replacement therapy (HRT) or hormone therapy (HT). Combination HRT/HT is estrogen combined with progestin. This type of HRT/HT increases the risk of breast cancer. Studies show that when women stop taking estrogen combined with progestin, the risk of breast cancer decreases.       Radiation therapy to the breast or chest     Radiation therapy to the chest for the treatment of cancer increases the risk of breast cancer, starting 10 years after treatment. The risk of breast cancer depends on the dose of radiation and the age at which it is given. The risk is highest if radiation treatment was used during puberty, when breasts are forming.     Radiation therapy to treat cancer in one breast does not appear to increase the risk of cancer in the other breast.    For women who have inherited changes in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, exposure to radiation, such as that from chest x-rays, may further increase the risk of breast cancer, especially in women who were x-rayed before 20 years of age.       Obesity     Obesity increases the risk of breast cancer, especially in postmenopausal women who have not used hormone replacement therapy.       Drinking alcohol     Drinking alcohol increases the risk of breast cancer. The level of risk rises as the amount of alcohol consumed rises.
                
                
                    The following are protective factors for breast cancer:
                    Less exposure of breast tissue to estrogen made by the body    Decreasing the length of time a woman's breast tissue is exposed to estrogen may help prevent breast cancer. Exposure to estrogen is reduced in the following ways:            -   Early pregnancy: Estrogen levels are lower during pregnancy. Women who have a full-term pregnancy before age 20 have a lower risk of breast cancer than women who have not had children or who give birth to their first child after age 35.     -  Breast-feeding: Estrogen levels may remain lower while a woman is breast-feeding. Women who breastfed have a lower risk of breast cancer than women who have had children but did not breastfeed.              Taking estrogen-only hormone therapy after hysterectomy, selective estrogen receptor modulators, or aromatase inhibitors and inactivators       Estrogen-only hormone therapy after hysterectomy     Hormone therapy with estrogen only may be given to women who have had a hysterectomy. In these women, estrogen-only therapy after menopause may decrease the risk of breast cancer. There is an increased risk of stroke and heart and blood vessel disease in postmenopausal women who take estrogen after a hysterectomy.          Selective estrogen receptor modulators      Tamoxifen and raloxifene belong to the family of drugs called selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs). SERMs act like estrogen on some tissues in the body, but block the effect of estrogen on other tissues.     Treatment with tamoxifen lowers the risk of estrogen receptor-positive (ER-positive) breast cancer and ductal carcinoma in situ in premenopausal and postmenopausal women at high risk. Treatment with raloxifene also lowers the risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal women. With either drug, the reduced risk lasts for several years or longer after treatment is stopped. Lower rates of broken bones have been noted in patients taking raloxifene.      Taking tamoxifen increases the risk of hot flashes, endometrial cancer, stroke, cataracts, and blood clots (especially in the lungs and legs). The risk of having these problems increases markedly in women older than 50 years compared with younger women. Women younger than 50 years who have a high risk of breast cancer may benefit the most from taking tamoxifen. The risk of having these problems decreases after tamoxifen is stopped. Talk with your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking this drug.      Taking raloxifene increases the risk of blood clots in the lungs and legs, but does not appear to increase the risk of endometrial cancer. In postmenopausal women with osteoporosis (decreased bone density), raloxifene lowers the risk of breast cancer for women who have a high or low risk of breast cancer. It is not known if raloxifene would have the same effect in women who do not have osteoporosis. Talk with your doctor about the risks and benefits of taking this drug.     Other SERMs are being studied in clinical trials.          Aromatase inhibitors and inactivators      Aromatase inhibitors (anastrozole, letrozole) and inactivators (exemestane) lower the risk of recurrence and of new breast cancers in women who have a history of breast cancer. Aromatase inhibitors also decrease the risk of breast cancer in women with the following conditions:                -  Postmenopausal women with a personal history of breast cancer.      -  Women with no personal history of breast cancer who are 60 years and older, have a history of ductal carcinoma in situ with mastectomy, or have a high risk of breast cancer based on the Gail model tool (a tool used to estimate the risk of breast cancer).               In women with an increased risk of breast cancer, taking aromatase inhibitors decreases the amount of estrogen made by the body. Before menopause, estrogen is made by the ovaries and other tissues in a woman's body, including the brain, fat tissue, and skin. After menopause, the ovaries stop making estrogen, but the other tissues do not. Aromatase inhibitors block the action of an enzyme called aromatase, which is used to make all of the body's estrogen. Aromatase inactivators stop the enzyme from working.     Possible harms from taking aromatase inhibitors include muscle and joint pain, osteoporosis, hot flashes, and feeling very tired.           Risk-reducing mastectomy     Some women who have a high risk of breast cancer may choose to have a risk-reducing mastectomy (the removal of both breasts when there are no signs of cancer). The risk of breast cancer is much lower in these women and most feel less anxious about their risk of breast cancer. However, it is very important to have a cancer risk assessment and counseling about the different ways to prevent breast cancer before making this decision.       Ovarian ablation    The ovaries make most of the estrogen that is made by the body. Treatments that stop or lower the amount of estrogen made by the ovaries include surgery to remove the ovaries, radiation therapy, or taking certain drugs. This is called ovarian ablation.    Premenopausal women who have a high risk of breast cancer due to certain changes in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes may choose to have a risk-reducing oophorectomy (the removal of both ovaries when there are no signs of cancer). This decreases the amount of estrogen made by the body and lowers the risk of breast cancer. Risk-reducing oophorectomy also lowers the risk of breast cancer in normal premenopausal women and in women with an increased risk of breast cancer due to radiation to the chest. However, it is very important to have a cancer risk assessment and counseling before making this decision. The sudden drop in estrogen levels may cause the symptoms of menopause to begin. These include hot flashes, trouble sleeping, anxiety, and depression. Long-term effects include decreased sex drive, vaginal dryness, and decreased bone density.        Getting enough exercise    Women who exercise four or more hours a week have a lower risk of breast cancer. The effect of exercise on breast cancer risk may be greatest in premenopausal women who have normal or low body weight.
                
                
                    It is not clear whether the following affect the risk of breast cancer:
                    Oral contraceptives    Certain oral contraceptives contain estrogen. Some studies have shown that taking oral contraceptives ("the pill") may slightly increase the risk of breast cancer in current users. This risk decreases over time. Other studies have not shown an increased risk of breast cancer in women who take oral contraceptives.     Progestin -only contraceptives that are injected or implanted do not appear to increase the risk of breast cancer. More studies are needed to know whether progestin-only oral contraceptives increase the risk of breast cancer.       Environment    Studies have not proven that being exposed to certain substances in the environment, such as chemicals, increases the risk of breast cancer.
                
                
                    Studies have shown that some factors do not affect the risk of breast cancer.
                    The following do not affect the risk of breast cancer:            - Having an abortion.     - Making diet changes such as eating less fat or more fruits and vegetables.     - Taking vitamins, including fenretinide (a type of vitamin A).     -  Cigarette smoking, both active and passive (inhaling secondhand smoke).     -  Using underarm deodorant or antiperspirant.     - Taking statins (cholesterol -lowering drugs).     - Taking bisphosphonates (drugs used to treat osteoporosis and hypercalcemia) by mouth or by intravenous infusion.

Question: Who is at risk for Lung Cancer? ?
Answer: Different factors increase or decrease the risk of lung cancer.
                    		Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Anything that decreases your chance of getting a disease is called a protective factor.   For information about risk factors and protective factors for lung cancer, see the PDQ summary on Lung Cancer Prevention.
        				
        				
		                    Key Points
		                    - Screening tests have risks.    - The risks of lung cancer screening tests include the following:          - Finding lung cancer may not improve health or help you live longer.     - False-negative test results can occur.     - False-positive test results can occur.     - Chest x-rays and low-dose spiral CT scans expose the chest to radiation.     -  Talk to your doctor about your risk for lung cancer and your need for screening tests.
		                
		                
		                    Screening tests have risks.
		                    Decisions about screening tests can be difficult. Not all screening tests are helpful and most have risks. Before having any screening test, you may want to discuss the test with your doctor. It is important to know the risks of the test and whether it has been proven to reduce the risk of dying from cancer.
		                
		                
		                    The risks of lung cancer screening tests include the following:
		                    Finding lung cancer may not improve health or help you live longer.    Screening may not improve your health or help you live longer if you have lung cancer that has already spread to other places in your body.     When a screening test result leads to the diagnosis and treatment of a disease that may never have caused symptoms or become life-threatening, it is called overdiagnosis. It is not known if treatment of these cancers would help you live longer than if no treatment were given, and treatments for cancer may have serious side effects. Harms of treatment may happen more often in people who have medical problems caused by heavy or long-term smoking.       False-negative test results can occur.    Screening test results may appear to be normal even though lung cancer is present. A person who receives a false-negative test result (one that shows there is no cancer when there really is) may delay seeking medical care even if there are symptoms.       False-positive test results can occur.    Screening test results may appear to be abnormal even though no cancer is present. A false-positive test result (one that shows there is cancer when there really isn't) can cause anxiety and is usually followed by more tests (such as biopsy), which also have risks. A biopsy to diagnose lung cancer can cause part of the lung to collapse. Sometimes surgery is needed to reinflate the lung. Harms of diagnostic tests may happen more often in patients who have medical problems caused by heavy or long-term smoking.        Chest x-rays and low-dose spiral CT scans expose the chest to radiation.     Radiation exposure from chest x-rays and low-dose spiral CT scans may increase the risk of cancer. Younger people and people at low risk for lung cancer are more likely to develop lung cancer caused by radiation exposure. .        Talk to your doctor about your risk for lung cancer and your need for screening tests.    Talk to your doctor or other health care provider about your risk for lung cancer, whether a screening test is right for you, and about the benefits and harms of the screening test. You should take part in the decision about whether a screening test is right for you. (See the PDQ summary on Cancer Screening Overview for more information.)

Question: Who is at risk for Breast Cancer? ?
Answer: A family history of breast cancer and other factors increase the risk of breast cancer.
                    Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk to your doctor if you think you may be at risk for breast cancer.    Risk factors for breast cancer include the following:            - A personal history of invasive breast cancer, ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), or lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS).     - A personal history of benign (noncancer) breast disease.     - A family history of breast cancer in a first-degree relative (mother, daughter, or sister).     - Inherited changes in the  BRCA1  or  BRCA2  genes or in other genes that increase the risk of breast cancer.     - Breast tissue that is dense on a mammogram.     -  Exposure of breast tissue to estrogen made by the body. This may be caused by:                  -  Menstruating at an early age.       -  Older age at first birth or never having given birth.       - Starting menopause at a later age.                - Taking hormones such as estrogen combined with progestin for symptoms of menopause.     - Treatment with radiation therapy to the breast/chest.     - Drinking alcohol.     -  Obesity.           Older age is the main risk factor for most cancers. The chance of getting cancer increases as you get older.      NCI's Breast Cancer Risk Assessment Tool uses a woman's risk factors to estimate her risk for breast cancer during the next five years and up to age 90. This online tool is meant to be used by a health care provider. For more information on breast cancer risk, call 1-800-4-CANCER.

Question: Who is at risk for Uterine Sarcoma? ?
Answer: Being exposed to x-rays can increase the risk of uterine sarcoma. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for uterine sarcoma include the following:         - Past treatment with radiation therapy to the pelvis.    - Treatment with tamoxifen for breast cancer. If you are taking this drug, have a pelvic exam every year and report any vaginal bleeding (other than menstrual bleeding) as soon as possible.

Question: Who is at risk for Endometrial Cancer? ?
Answer: Obesity and having metabolic syndrome may increase the risk of endometrial cancer.
                    Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for endometrial cancer include the following:         - Having endometrial hyperplasia.    - Being obese.    - Having metabolic syndrome, a set of conditions that occur together, including extra fat around the abdomen, high blood sugar, high blood pressure, high levels of triglycerides and low levels of high-density lipoproteins in the blood.    -  Never giving birth.    - Beginning menstruation at an early age.    - Reaching menopause at an older age.    - Having polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS).     -  Having a mother, sister, or daughter with uterine cancer.    - Having a certain gene change that is linked to Lynch syndrome (hereditary non-polyposis colon cancer).     - Having hyperinsulinemia (high levels of insulin in the blood).
                
                
                    Taking tamoxifen for breast cancer or taking estrogen alone (without progesterone) can increase the risk of endometrial cancer.
                    Endometrial cancer may develop in breast cancer patients who have been treated with tamoxifen. A patient who takes this drug and has abnormal vaginal bleeding should have a follow-up exam and a biopsy of the endometrial lining if needed. Women taking estrogen (a hormone that can affect the growth of some cancers) alone also have an increased risk of endometrial cancer. Taking estrogen combined with progesterone (another hormone) does not increase a womans risk of endometrial cancer.

Question: Who is at risk for Childhood Soft Tissue Sarcoma? ?
Answer: Having certain diseases and inherited disorders can increase the risk of childhood soft tissue sarcoma. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your childs doctor if you think your child may be at risk.    Risk factors for childhood soft tissue sarcoma include having the following inherited disorders:         -  Li-Fraumeni syndrome.     -  Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP).    -  Retinoblastoma 1 gene changes.    -  Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1).    -  Werner syndrome.        Other risk factors include the following:         - Past treatment with radiation therapy.    - Having AIDS (acquired immune deficiency syndrome) and Epstein-Barr virus infection at the same time.

Question: Who is at risk for Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma? ?
Answer: Certain genetic conditions increase the risk of childhood rhabdomyosarcoma. Anything that increases the risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your childs doctor if you think your child may be at risk.   Risk factors for rhabdomyosarcoma include having the following inherited diseases:         -  Li-Fraumeni syndrome.    -  Pleuropulmonary blastoma.    -  Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1).    -  Costello syndrome.    -  Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome.     -  Noonan syndrome.        Children who had a high birth weight or were larger than expected at birth may have an increased risk of embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma.   In most cases, the cause of rhabdomyosarcoma is not known.

Question: Who is at risk for Adult Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma? ?
Answer: Age, gender, and a weakened immune system can affect the risk of adult non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk.    These and other risk factors may increase the risk of certain types of adult non-Hodgkin lymphoma:         - Being older, male, or white.    - Having one of the following medical conditions:               - An inherited immune disorder (such as hypogammaglobulinemia or Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome).      - An autoimmune disease (such as rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, or Sjgren syndrome).      - HIV/AIDS.      - Human T-lymphotrophic virus type I or Epstein-Barr virus infection.      - Helicobacter pylori infection.             - Taking immunosuppressant drugs after an organ transplant.

Question: Who is at risk for Endometrial Cancer? ?
Answer: Health history and certain medicines can affect the risk of developing endometrial cancer. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. People who think they may be at risk should discuss this with their doctor. Risk factors for endometrial cancer include the following:         - Taking tamoxifen for treatment or prevention of breast cancer.    - Taking estrogen alone. (Taking estrogen in combination with progestin does not appear to increase the risk of endometrial cancer.)    - Being overweight.    - Eating a high-fat diet.    -  Never giving birth.    - Beginning menstruation at an early age.    - Reaching menopause at an older age.    - Having the gene for hereditary non-polyposis colon cancer (HNPCC).     - Being white.

Question: Who is at risk for Wilms Tumor and Other Childhood Kidney Tumors? ?
Answer: Having certain genetic syndromes or other conditions can increase the risk of Wilms tumor.
                    Anything that increases the risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk to your child's doctor if you think your child may be at risk.    Wilms tumor may be part of a genetic syndrome that affects growth or development. A genetic syndrome is a set of signs and symptoms or conditions that occur together and is caused by certain changes in the genes. Certain conditions can also increase a child's risk of developing Wilms tumor. These and other genetic syndromes and conditions have been linked to Wilms tumor:         -  WAGR syndrome (Wilms tumor, aniridia, abnormal genitourinary system, and mental retardation).     -  Denys-Drash syndrome (abnormal genitourinary system).    - Frasier syndrome (abnormal genitourinary system).    -  Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (abnormally large growth of one side of the body or a body part, large tongue, umbilical hernia at birth, and abnormal genitourinary system).     - A family history of Wilms tumor.    - Aniridia (the iris, the colored part of the eye, is missing).    - Isolated hemihyperplasia (abnormally large growth of one side of the body or a body part).    -  Urinary tract problems such as cryptorchidism or hypospadias.
                
                
                    Having certain conditions may increase the risk of renal cell cancer.
                    Renal cell cancer may be related to the following conditions:         -  Von Hippel-Lindau disease (an inherited condition that causes abnormal growth of blood vessels). Children with Von Hippel-Lindau disease should be checked yearly for renal cell cancer with an ultrasound of the abdomen or an MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) beginning at age 8 to 11 years.     -  Tuberous sclerosis (an inherited disease marked by noncancerous fatty cysts in the kidney).    -  Familial renal cell cancer (an inherited condition that occurs when certain changes in the genes that cause kidney cancer are passed down from the parent to the child).    - Renal medullary cancer (a rare kidney cancer that grows and spreads quickly).    -  Hereditary leiomyomatosis (an inherited disorder that increases the risk of having cancer of the kidney, skin, and uterus).        Prior chemotherapy or radiation therapy for a childhood cancer, such as neuroblastoma, soft tissue sarcoma, leukemia, or Wilms tumor may also increase the risk of renal cell cancer. See the Second Cancers section in the PDQ summary about Late Effects of Treatment for Childhood Cancer for more information.

Question: Who is at risk for Colorectal Cancer? ?
Answer: Different factors increase or decrease the risk of getting colorectal cancer. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Anything that decreases your chance of getting a disease is called a protective factor.   For information about risk factors and protective factors for colorectal cancer, see the PDQ summary on Colorectal Cancer Prevention.

Question: Who is at risk for Primary CNS Lymphoma? ?
Answer: Having a weakened immune system may increase the risk of developing primary CNS lymphoma. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk.    Primary CNS lymphoma may occur in patients who have acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) or other disorders of the immune system or who have had a kidney transplant. For more information about lymphoma in patients with AIDS, see the PDQ summary on AIDS-Related Lymphoma Treatment.

Question: Who is at risk for Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia? ?
Answer: Previous chemotherapy and exposure to radiation may increase the risk of developing ALL. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Possible risk factors for ALL include the following:         - Being male.    - Being white.    - Being older than 70.    - Past treatment with chemotherapy or radiation therapy.    - Being exposed to high levels of radiation in the environment (such as nuclear radiation).    - Having certain genetic disorders, such as Down syndrome.

Question: Who is at risk for Oral Cavity and Oropharyngeal Cancer? ?
Answer: The number of new cases of oral cavity and oropharyngeal cancer and the number of deaths from oral cavity and oropharyngeal cancer varies by race and gender. Over the past ten years, the number of new cases and deaths from oral cavity and oropharyngeal cancer slightly increased in white men and women. The number slightly decreased among black men and women.   Oral cavity and oropharyngeal cancer is more common in men than in women. Although oral cavity and oropharyngeal cancer may occur in adults of any age, it occurs most often in those aged 55 to 64 years.   France, Brazil, and parts of Asia have much higher rates of oral cavity and oropharyngeal cancer than most other countries.    The number of new cases of oropharyngeal cancer caused by certain types of human papillomavirus (HPV) infection has increased. One kind of HPV, called HPV 16, is often passed from one person to another during sexual activity.

Question: Who is at risk for Oral Cavity and Oropharyngeal Cancer? ?
Answer: Different factors increase or decrease the risk of oral cavity and oropharyngeal cancer. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Anything that decreases your chance of getting a disease is called a protective factor.    For information about risk factors and protective factors for oral cavity and oropharyngeal cancer, see the PDQ summary on Oral Cavity and Oropharyngeal Cancer Prevention.

Question: Who is at risk for Plasma Cell Neoplasms (Including Multiple Myeloma)? ?
Answer: Age can affect the risk of plasma cell neoplasms. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk.    Plasma cell neoplasms are most common in people who are middle aged or older. For multiple myeloma and plasmacytoma, other risk factors include the following:          - Being black.    - Being male.    - Having a personal history of MGUS or plasmacytoma.    - Being exposed to radiation or certain chemicals.

Question: Who is at risk for Pituitary Tumors? ?
Answer: Having certain genetic conditions increases the risk of developing a pituitary tumor.Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for pituitary tumors include having the following hereditary diseases:         -  Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) syndrome.    -  Carney complex.    - Isolated familial acromegaly.

Question: Who is at risk for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia? ?
Answer: Older age can affect the risk of developing chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for CLL include the following:         - Being middle-aged or older, male, or white.    - A family history of CLL or cancer of the lymph system.    - Having relatives who are Russian Jews or Eastern European Jews.

Question: Who is at risk for Skin Cancer? ?
Answer: Being exposed to ultraviolet radiation may increase the risk of skin cancer. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. People who think they may be at risk should discuss this with their doctor.    Being exposed to ultraviolet (UV) radiation and having skin that is sensitive to UV radiation are risk factors for skin cancer. UV radiation is the name for the invisible rays that are part of the energy that comes from the sun. Sunlamps and tanning beds also give off UV radiation.   Risk factors for nonmelanoma and melanoma cancers are not the same.         -  Nonmelanoma skin cancer risk factors include:               - Being exposed to natural sunlight or artificial sunlight (such as from tanning beds) over long periods of time.      - Having a fair complexion, which includes the following:                        - Fair skin that freckles and burns easily, does not tan, or tans poorly.         - Blue or green or other light-colored eyes.          - Red or blond hair.                      - Having actinic keratosis.       - Past treatment with radiation.      - Having a weakened immune system.       - Being exposed to arsenic.             -  Melanoma skin cancer risk factors include:               - Having a fair complexion, which includes the following:                         - Fair skin that freckles and burns easily, does not tan, or tans poorly.          - Blue or green or other light-colored eyes.          - Red or blond hair.                     - Being exposed to natural sunlight or artificial sunlight (such as from tanning beds) over long periods of time.       - Having a history of many blistering sunburns, especially as a child or teenager.       - Having several large or many small moles.      - Having a family history of unusual moles (atypical nevus syndrome).      -  Having a family or personal history of melanoma.       - Being white.

Question: Who is at risk for Penile Cancer? ?
Answer: Human papillomavirus infection may increase the risk of developing penile cancer. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for penile cancer include the following:    Circumcision may help prevent infection with the human papillomavirus (HPV). A circumcision is an operation in which the doctor removes part or all of the foreskin from the penis. Many boys are circumcised shortly after birth. Men who were not circumcised at birth may have a higher risk of developing penile cancer.    Other risk factors for penile cancer include the following:         - Being age 60 or older.    - Having phimosis (a condition in which the foreskin of the penis cannot be pulled back over the glans).    - Having poor personal hygiene.    - Having many sexual partners.    - Using tobacco products.

Question: Who is at risk for Small Intestine Cancer? ?
Answer: Diet and health history can affect the risk of developing small intestine cancer. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for small intestine cancer include the following:         - Eating a high-fat diet.    - Having Crohn disease.     - Having celiac disease.    -  Having familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP).

Question: Who is at risk for Testicular Cancer? ?
Answer: Testicular cancer is the most common cancer in men aged 15 to 34 years. Testicular cancer is very rare, but it is the most common cancer found in men between the ages of 15 and 34. White men are four times more likely than black men to have testicular cancer

Question: Who is at risk for Testicular Cancer? ?
Answer: A condition called cryptorchidism (an undescended testicle) is a risk factor for testicular cancer. Anything that increases the chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk to your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for testicular cancer include the following:          - Having cryptorchidism (an undescended testicle).    - Having a testicle that is not normal, such as a small testicle that does not work the way it should.    - Having testicular carcinoma in situ.    - Being white.    - Having a personal or family history of testicular cancer.    - Having Klinefelter syndrome.        Men who have cryptorchidism, a testicle that is not normal, or testicular carcinoma in situ have an increased risk of testicular cancer in one or both testicles, and need to be followed closely.

Question: Who is at risk for Testicular Cancer? ?
Answer: Health history can affect the risk of testicular cancer.
	                    Anything that increases the chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for testicular cancer include:          - Having had an undescended testicle.    - Having had abnormal development of the testicles.    - Having a personal history of testicular cancer.    - Having a family history of testicular cancer (especially in a father or brother).    - Being white.
	                
	                
	                    Treatment for testicular cancer can cause infertility.
	                    Certain treatments for testicular cancer can cause infertility that may be permanent. Patients who may wish to have children should consider sperm banking before having treatment. Sperm banking is the process of freezing sperm and storing it for later use.

Question: Who is at risk for Hairy Cell Leukemia? ?
Answer: Gender and age may affect the risk of hairy cell leukemia. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. The cause of hairy cell leukemia is unknown. It occurs more often in older men.

Question: Who is at risk for Adult Central Nervous System Tumors? ?
Answer: Having certain genetic syndromes may increase the risk of a central nervous system tumor. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. There are few known risk factors for brain tumors. The following conditions may increase the risk of certain types of brain tumors:          - Being exposed to vinyl chloride may increase the risk of glioma.    -  Infection with the Epstein-Barr virus, having AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome), or receiving an organ transplant may increase the risk of primary CNS lymphoma. (See the PDQ summary on Primary CNS Lymphoma for more information.)    - Having certain genetic syndromes may increase the risk brain tumors:               -  Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) or 2 (NF2).      -  von Hippel-Lindau disease.      -  Tuberous sclerosis.      -  Li-Fraumeni syndrome.      - Turcot syndrome type 1 or 2.      -  Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome.

Question: Who is at risk for Pancreatic Cancer? ?
Answer: Smoking and health history can affect the risk of pancreatic cancer. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk.     Risk factors for pancreatic cancer include the following:         - Smoking.    - Being very overweight.    - Having a personal history of diabetes or chronic pancreatitis.    - Having a family history of pancreatic cancer or pancreatitis.    - Having certain hereditary conditions, such as:               -  Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) syndrome.      -  Hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC; Lynch syndrome).      -  von Hippel-Lindau syndrome.      -  Peutz-Jeghers syndrome.      -  Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome.      -  Familial atypical multiple mole melanoma (FAMMM) syndrome.

Question: Who is at risk for Adult Hodgkin Lymphoma? ?
Answer: Age, gender, and Epstein-Barr infection can affect the risk of adult Hodgkin lymphoma. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for adult Hodgkin lymphoma include the following:         - Being in young or late adulthood.     - Being male.     - Being infected with the Epstein-Barr virus.    - Having a first-degree relative (parent, brother, or sister) with Hodgkin lymphoma.        Pregnancy is not a risk factor for Hodgkin lymphoma.

Question: Who is at risk for Bile Duct Cancer (Cholangiocarcinoma)? ?
Answer: Having colitis or certain liver diseases can increase the risk of bile duct cancer. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. People who think they may be at risk should discuss this with their doctor.    Risk factors for bile duct cancer include the following conditions:         - Primary sclerosing cholangitis (a progressive disease in which the bile ducts become blocked by inflammation and scarring).    -  Chronic ulcerative colitis.    -  Cysts in the bile ducts (cysts block the flow of bile and can cause swollen bile ducts, inflammation, and infection).    - Infection with a Chinese liver fluke parasite.

Question: Who is at risk for Intraocular (Uveal) Melanoma? ?
Answer: Being older and having fair skin may increase the risk of intraocular melanoma. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk.    Risk factors for intraocular melanoma include the following:         - Having a fair complexion, which includes the following:                - Fair skin that freckles and burns easily, does not tan, or tans poorly.      - Blue or green or other light-colored eyes.             - Older age.    - Being white.

Question: Who is at risk for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer? ?
Answer: Smoking is the major risk factor for non-small cell lung cancer. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk to your doctor if you think you may be at risk for lung cancer.    Risk factors for lung cancer include the following:            -  Smoking cigarettes, pipes, or cigars, now or in the past. This is the most important risk factor for lung cancer. The earlier in life a person starts smoking, the more often a person smokes, and the more years a person smokes, the greater the risk of lung cancer.      -  Being exposed to secondhand smoke.     - Being exposed to radiation from any of the following:                  -  Radiation therapy to the breast or chest.       -  Radon in the home or workplace.       -  Imaging tests such as CT scans.       - Atomic bomb radiation.                 -  Being exposed to asbestos, chromium, nickel, beryllium, arsenic, soot, or tar in the workplace.     -  Living where there is air pollution.     -  Having a family history of lung cancer.     -  Being infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).     -  Taking beta carotene supplements and being a heavy smoker.           Older age is the main risk factor for most cancers. The chance of getting cancer increases as you get older.     When smoking is combined with other risk factors, the risk of lung cancer is increased.

Question: Who is at risk for Osteosarcoma and Malignant Fibrous Histiocytoma of Bone? ?
Answer: Having past treatment with radiation can increase the risk of osteosarcoma. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your child's doctor if you think your child may be at risk. Risk factors for osteosarcoma include the following:         - Past treatment with radiation therapy.    - Past treatment with anticancer drugs called alkylating agents.    - Having a certain change in the retinoblastoma gene.    - Having certain conditions, such as the following:               -  Bloom syndrome.      -  Diamond-Blackfan anemia.      -  Li-Fraumeni syndrome.      -  Paget disease.      -  Hereditary retinoblastoma.      -  Rothmund-Thomson syndrome.      -  Werner syndrome.

Question: Who is at risk for Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia? ?
Answer: Smoking, previous chemotherapy treatment, and exposure to radiation may affect the risk of adult AML. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Possible risk factors for AML include the following:         - Being male.    - Smoking, especially after age 60.    - Having had treatment with chemotherapy or radiation therapy in the past.    - Having had treatment for childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in the past.    - Being exposed to radiation from an atomic bomb or to the chemical benzene.    - Having a history of a blood disorder such as myelodysplastic syndrome.

Question: Who is at risk for Oral Cavity and Oropharyngeal Cancer? ?
Answer: Key Points
                    - Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.    - The following are risk factors for oral cavity cancer and oropharyngeal cancer:         - Tobacco use     - Alcohol use     - Tobacco and alcohol use     - Betel quid or gutka chewing     - Personal history of head and neck cancer        - The following is a risk factor for oropharyngeal cancer:         - HPV infection        - The following is a protective factor for oral cavity cancer and oropharyngeal cancer:         - Quitting smoking        - It is not clear whether avoiding certain risk factors will decrease the risk of oral cavity cancer or oropharyngeal cancer.    - Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.    -  New ways to prevent oral cavity cancer and oropharyngeal cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                
                
                    Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.
                    Avoiding cancer risk factors may help prevent certain cancers. Risk factors include smoking, being overweight, and not getting enough exercise. Increasing protective factors such as quitting smoking and exercising may also help prevent some cancers. Talk to your doctor or other health care professional about how you might lower your risk of cancer.    Oral cavity cancer and oropharyngeal cancer are two different diseases, but they have some risk factors in common.
                
                
                    The following are risk factors for oral cavity cancer and oropharyngeal cancer:
                    Tobacco use    Using tobacco is the most common cause of oral cavity cancer and oropharyngeal cancer. The risk of these cancers is about 5 to 10 times higher for current smokers than for people who have never smoked.    The use of all types of tobacco, including cigarettes, pipes, cigars, and smokeless tobacco (snuff and chewing tobacco) can cause cancer of the oral cavity and oropharynx. For cigarette smokers, the risk of oral cavity cancer and oropharyngeal cancer increases with the number of cigarettes smoked per day.       Alcohol use    Using alcohol is also an important risk factor for oral cavity cancer and oropharyngeal cancer.    The risk of oral cavity cancer and oropharyngeal cancer increases with the number of alcoholic drinks consumed per day. The risk of oral cavity cancer and oropharyngeal cancer is about twice as high in people who have 3 to 4 alcoholic drinks per day and 5 times higher in people who have 5 or more alcoholic drinks per day compared with those who don't drink alcohol.       Tobacco and alcohol use    The risk of oral cavity cancer and oropharyngeal cancer is 2 to 3 times higher in people who use both tobacco and alcohol than it is in people who use only tobacco or only alcohol. The risk of oral cavity cancer and oropharyngeal cancer is about 35 times higher in people who smoke 2 or more packs of cigarettes per day and have more than 4 alcoholic drinks per day than it is in people who have never smoked cigarettes or consumed alcohol.        Betel quid or gutka chewing    Chewing betel quid or gutka (betel quid mixed with tobacco) has been shown to increase the risk of oral cavity cancer and oropharyngeal cancer. Betel quid contains areca nut, which is a cancer-causing substance. The risk of oral cavity cancer and oropharyngeal cancer increases with how long and how often betel quid or gutka are chewed. The risk for oral cavity cancer and oropharyngeal cancer is higher when chewing gutka than when chewing betel quid alone. Betel quid and gutka chewing is common in many countries in South Asia and Southeast Asia, including China and India.        Personal history of head and neck cancer    A personal history of head and neck cancer increases the risk of oral cavity cancer and oropharyngeal cancer.
                
                
                    The following is a risk factor for oropharyngeal cancer:
                    HPV infection    Being infected with certain types of HPV, especially HPV type 16, increases the risk of oropharyngeal cancer. HPV infection is spread mainly through sexual contact.     The risk of oropharyngeal cancer is about 15 times higher in people who have oral HPV 16 infection compared with people who do not have oral HPV 16 infection.
                
                
                    It is not clear whether avoiding certain risk factors will decrease the risk of oral cavity cancer or oropharyngeal cancer.
                    It has not been proven that stopping alcohol use will decrease the risk of oral cavity cancer or oropharyngeal cancer.    Getting an HPV vaccination greatly lessens the risk of oral HPV infection. It is not yet known whether getting an HPV vaccination at any age will decrease the risk of oropharyngeal cancer from HPV infection.

Question: Who is at risk for Childhood Astrocytomas? ?
Answer: Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your child's doctor if you think your child may be at risk. Possible risk factors for astrocytoma include:          - Past radiation therapy to the brain.    - Having certain genetic disorders, such as neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) or tuberous sclerosis.

Question: Who is at risk for Knee Replacement? ?
Answer: Because a fall can damage your new knee, making your home a safe place is crucial. Before your surgery, look for and correct hazards, including cluttered floors, loose electrical cords, unsecured rugs, and dark hallways. A raised toilet seat can make it easier to get up and down. Grab bars in the tub can keep you steady.

Question: Who is at risk for Low Vision? ?
Answer: People age 60 and older, as well as African Americans and Hispanics over age 45, are at higher risk. African Americans and Hispanics are at higher risk for low vision because they are at higher risk for developing diabetes and diabetic retinopathy, and African Americans are at a higher risk for developing glaucoma.

Question: Who is at risk for Gout? ?
Answer: These risk factors are associated with gout. - Genetics. Many people with gout have a family history of the disease.   -  Gender and age. Gout is more common in men than in women and more common in adults than in children.  -  Weight. Being overweight increases the risk of developing gout because there is more tissue available for turnover or breakdown, which leads to excess uric acid production. (High levels of uric acid in the blood can lead to gout.)  - Alcohol consumption. Drinking too much alcohol can lead to a buildup of uric acid because alcohol interferes with the removal of uric acid from the body.  - Diet. Eating too many foods that are rich in purines such as liver, dried beans and peas, anchovies and gravies, can cause or aggravate gout in some people.   - Lead exposure. In some cases, exposure to lead in the environment can cause gout. Genetics. Many people with gout have a family history of the disease.  Gender and age. Gout is more common in men than in women and more common in adults than in children. Weight. Being overweight increases the risk of developing gout because there is more tissue available for turnover or breakdown, which leads to excess uric acid production. (High levels of uric acid in the blood can lead to gout.) Alcohol consumption. Drinking too much alcohol can lead to a buildup of uric acid because alcohol interferes with the removal of uric acid from the body. Diet. Eating too many foods that are rich in purines such as liver, dried beans and peas, anchovies and gravies, can cause or aggravate gout in some people. Lead exposure. In some cases, exposure to lead in the environment can cause gout.

Question: Who is at risk for Gout? ?
Answer: Renal insufficiency, or the inability of the kidneys to eliminate waste products, is a common cause of gout in older people. Here are other medical problems that contribute to high blood levels of uric acid and can put people at risk for gout. - high blood pressure  - hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid gland)  - conditions that cause an excessively rapid turnover of cells, such as psoriasis, hemolytic anemia, or some cancers  - Kelley-Seegmiller syndrome or Lesch-Nyhan syndrome, two rare conditions in which the enzyme that helps control uric acid levels either is not present or is found in insufficient quantities.  high blood pressure hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid gland) conditions that cause an excessively rapid turnover of cells, such as psoriasis, hemolytic anemia, or some cancers Kelley-Seegmiller syndrome or Lesch-Nyhan syndrome, two rare conditions in which the enzyme that helps control uric acid levels either is not present or is found in insufficient quantities.

Question: Who is at risk for Gout? ?
Answer: Yes. A number of medications may put people at risk for developing hyperuricemia and gout. They include - diuretics, which are taken to eliminate excess fluid from the body in conditions like hypertension, edema, and heart disease, and which decrease the amount of uric acid passed in the urine. (High levels of uric acid in the blood can lead to gout.)  - salicylate-containing drugs, such as aspirin  - niacin,  a vitamin also known as nicotinic acid  - cyclosporine, a medication that suppresses the bodys immune system (the system that protects the body from infection and disease). This medication is used in the treatment of some autoimmune diseases and to prevent the bodys rejection of transplanted organs.  -   levodopa, a medicine used in the treatment of Parkinsons disease.  diuretics, which are taken to eliminate excess fluid from the body in conditions like hypertension, edema, and heart disease, and which decrease the amount of uric acid passed in the urine. (High levels of uric acid in the blood can lead to gout.) salicylate-containing drugs, such as aspirin niacin,  a vitamin also known as nicotinic acid cyclosporine, a medication that suppresses the bodys immune system (the system that protects the body from infection and disease). This medication is used in the treatment of some autoimmune diseases and to prevent the bodys rejection of transplanted organs.  levodopa, a medicine used in the treatment of Parkinsons disease.

Question: Who is at risk for Cataract? ?
Answer: Age-related cataracts develop in two ways. - Clumps of protein reduce the sharpness of the image reaching the retina.  - The clear lens slowly changes to a yellowish/brownish color, adding a brownish tint to vision. Clumps of protein reduce the sharpness of the image reaching the retina. The clear lens slowly changes to a yellowish/brownish color, adding a brownish tint to vision. Protein Clumpings Cloud the Lens The lens consists mostly of water and protein. When the protein clumps up, it clouds the lens and reduces the light that reaches the retina. The clouding may become severe enough to cause blurred vision. Most age-related cataracts develop from protein clumpings. When a cataract is small, the cloudiness affects only a small part of the lens. You may not notice any changes in your vision. Cataracts tend to grow slowly, so vision gets worse gradually. Over time, the cloudy area in the lens may get larger, and the cataract may increase in size. Seeing may become more difficult. Your vision may get duller or blurrier. Discoloration of the Lens Cataracts cause the lens to change to a yellowish/brownish color. As the clear lens slowly colors with age, your vision gradually may acquire a brownish shade. At first, the amount of tinting may be small and may not cause a vision problem. Over time, increased tinting may make it more difficult to read and perform other routine activities. This gradual change in the amount of tinting does not affect the sharpness of the image transmitted to the retina. If you have advanced lens discoloration, you may not be able to identify blues and purples. You may be wearing what you believe to be a pair of black socks, only to find out from friends that you are wearing purple socks. Risk Factors The risk of cataract increases as you get older. Other risk factors for cataract include - certain diseases like diabetes  - personal behavior like smoking or alcohol use  - environmental factors such as prolonged exposure to ultraviolet sunlight. certain diseases like diabetes personal behavior like smoking or alcohol use environmental factors such as prolonged exposure to ultraviolet sunlight.

Question: Who is at risk for Cataract? ?
Answer: There are several things you can do to lower your risk for cataract. They include - having regular eye exams  - quitting smoking  - wearing sunglasses  - taking care of other health problems  - maintaining a healthy weight  - choosing a healthy diet. having regular eye exams quitting smoking wearing sunglasses taking care of other health problems maintaining a healthy weight choosing a healthy diet. Get Regular Eye Exams Be sure to have regular comprehensive eye exams. If you are age 60 or older, you should have a comprehensive dilated eye exam at least once a year. Eye exams can help detect cataracts and other age-related eye problems at their earliest stages. In addition to cataract, your eye care professional can check for signs of age-related macular degeneration, glaucoma, and other vision disorders. For many eye diseases, early treatment may save your sight. For more on comprehensive eye exams, see the chapter on Symptoms and Detection. Quit Smoking Ask your doctor for help to stop smoking. Medications, counseling and other strategies are available to help you. Wear Sunglasses Ultraviolet light from the sun may contribute to the development of cataracts. Wear sunglasses that block ultraviolet B (UVB) rays when you're outdoors. Take Care of Other Health Problems Follow your treatment plan if you have diabetes or other medical conditions that can increase your risk of cataracts. Maintain a Healthy Weight If your current weight is a healthy one, work to maintain it by exercising most days of the week. If you're overweight or obese, work to lose weight slowly by reducing your calorie intake and increasing the amount of exercise you get each day. Choose a Healthy Diet Choose a healthy diet that includes plenty of fruits and vegetables. Adding a variety of colorful fruits and vegetables to your diet ensures that you're getting a lot of vitamins and nutrients. Fruits and vegetables are full of antioxidants, which in theory could prevent damage to your eye's lens. Studies haven't proven that antioxidants in pill form can prevent cataracts. But fruits and vegetables have many proven health benefits and are a safe way to increase the amount of vitamins in your diet. Choose a Healthy Diet Choose a healthy diet that includes plenty of fruits and vegetables. Adding a variety of colorful fruits and vegetables to your diet ensures that you're getting a lot of vitamins and nutrients. Fruits and vegetables are full of antioxidants, which in theory could prevent damage to your eye's lens. Studies haven't proven that antioxidants in pill form can prevent cataracts. But fruits and vegetables have many proven health benefits and are a safe way to increase the amount of vitamins in your diet.

Question: Who is at risk for Cataract? ?
Answer: The risk of cataract increases as you get older. Besides age, other risk factors for cataract include - certain diseases like diabetes  - personal behavior like smoking or alcohol use  - environmental factors such as prolonged exposure to ultraviolet sunlight. certain diseases like diabetes personal behavior like smoking or alcohol use environmental factors such as prolonged exposure to ultraviolet sunlight.

Question: Who is at risk for Cataract? ?
Answer: Here are several things you can do to lower your risk for cataract. Have regular eye exams. Eye exams can help detect cataracts and other age-related eye problems at their earliest stages. If you are age 60 or older, you should have a comprehensive dilated eye exam at least once a year. In addition to cataract, your eye care professional can check for signs of age-related macular degeneration, glaucoma, and other vision disorders. For many eye diseases, early treatment may save your sight. Quit smoking. Ask your doctor for help to stop smoking. Medications, counseling and other strategies are available to help you. Wear sunglasses.  Wear sunglasses that block ultraviolet B (UVB) rays when you're outdoors. Take care of other health problems.  Follow your treatment plan if you have diabetes or other medical conditions that can increase your risk of cataracts. Maintain a healthy weight. If your current weight is a healthy one, work to maintain it by exercising most days of the week. If you're overweight or obese, work to lose weight slowly by reducing your calorie intake and increasing the amount of exercise you get each day. Choose a healthy diet. A diet that includes plenty of colorful fruits and vegetables ensures that you're getting a lot of vitamins and nutrients, which in theory could prevent damage to your eye's lens.

Question: Who is at risk for Cataract? ?
Answer: As with any surgery, cataract surgery poses risks such as infection and bleeding. Before cataract surgery, your doctor may ask you to temporarily stop taking certain medications that increase the risk of bleeding during surgery. After surgery, you must keep your eye clean, wash your hands before touching your eye, and use the prescribed medications to help minimize the risk of infection. Serious infection can result in loss of vision. Cataract surgery slightly increases your risk of retinal detachment. Other eye disorders, such as nearsightedness, can further increase your risk of retinal detachment after cataract surgery. A retinal detachment causes no pain. Early treatment for retinal detachment often can prevent permanent loss of vision. The longer the retina stays detached, the less likely you will regain good vision once you are treated. Even if you are treated promptly, some vision may be lost. Talk to your eye care professional about these risks. Make sure cataract surgery is right for you.

Question: Who is at risk for Lung Cancer? ?
Answer: Risk factors that increase your chance of getting lung cancer include - cigarette, cigar, and pipe smoking, which account for well over half of all cases of lung cancer  - secondhand smoke  - family history  - HIV infection  - environmental risk factors  - beta carotene supplements in heavy smokers. cigarette, cigar, and pipe smoking, which account for well over half of all cases of lung cancer secondhand smoke family history HIV infection environmental risk factors beta carotene supplements in heavy smokers.

Question: Who is at risk for Lung Cancer? ?
Answer: If you smoke cigarettes, you are at much higher risk for lung cancer than a person who has never smoked. The risk of dying from lung cancer is 23 times higher for men who smoke and 13 times higher for women who smoke than for people who have never smoked. Stopping smoking greatly reduces your risk for developing lung cancer. But after you stop, the risk goes down slowly. Ten years after the last cigarette, the risk of dying from lung cancer drops by 50 percent. Each U.S. state and territory has a free quitline to provide you with information and resources to help you quit smoking. To reach the quitline in your area, dial toll-free, 1-800-QUIT-NOW. (Watch the video to learn about the effect smoking can have on an older adult's health. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.)

Question: Who is at risk for Lung Cancer? ?
Answer: Quitting smoking not only cuts the risk of lung cancer, it cuts the risks of many other cancers as well as heart disease, stroke, other lung diseases, and other respiratory illnesses. Each U.S. state and territory has a free quitline to provide you with information and resources to help you quit smoking. To reach the quitline in your area, dial toll-free, 1-800-QUIT-NOW. (Watch the video to learn about the benefits of quitting smoking when you're older. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.)  Learn more about the effects of smoking on your health.

Question: Who is at risk for Lung Cancer? ?
Answer: Another substance that can contribute to lung cancer is asbestos. Asbestos is used in shipbuilding, asbestos mining and manufacturing, insulation work, and brake repair, but many products that contain asbestos have been phased out over the past several decades. If inhaled, asbestos particles can lodge in the lungs, damaging cells and increasing the risk for lung cancer.

Question: Who is at risk for Age-related Macular Degeneration? ?
Answer: Risk Increases With Age AMD is most common in older people, but it can occur during middle age. The risk increases with age. Other Risk Factors Other risk factors include - Smoking  - Obesity  - Race. Whites are much more likely to lose vision from AMD than African-Americans.  - Family history. People with a family history of AMD are at higher risk of getting the disease.  - Gender. Women appear to be at greater risk than men. Smoking Obesity Race. Whites are much more likely to lose vision from AMD than African-Americans. Family history. People with a family history of AMD are at higher risk of getting the disease. Gender. Women appear to be at greater risk than men.

Question: Who is at risk for Age-related Macular Degeneration? ?
Answer: AMD is most common in older people, but it can occur during middle age. The risk increases with age. Other risk factors include smoking, obesity, white race, family history of AMD, and female gender.

Question: Who is at risk for Breast Cancer? ?
Answer: Some women develop breast cancer and others do not, and the risk factors for the disease vary. Breast cancer may affect younger women, but three-fourths of all breast cancers occur in women between the ages of 45 to 85. In Situ and Invasive Breast Cancer Researchers often talk about breast cancer in two ways: in situ and invasive. In situ refers to cancer that has not spread beyond its site of origin. Invasive applies to cancer that has spread to the tissue around it. This chart shows what the approximate chances are of a woman getting invasive breast cancer in her lifetime. Risk Factors Risk factors are conditions or agents that increase a person's chances of getting a disease. Here are the most common risk factors for breast cancer. -   Older age. The risk of breast cancer in a 70 year old woman is about 10 times that of a 30 year old woman, but risk decreases after age 85.  Older age. The risk of breast cancer in a 70 year old woman is about 10 times that of a 30 year old woman, but risk decreases after age 85. - Personal and family history. A personal history of breast cancer or breast cancer among one or more of your close relatives, such as a sister, mother, or daughter. Personal and family history. A personal history of breast cancer or breast cancer among one or more of your close relatives, such as a sister, mother, or daughter. - Estrogen levels in the body. High estrogen levels over a long time may increase the risk of breast cancer. Estrogen levels are highest during the years a woman is menstruating. Estrogen levels in the body. High estrogen levels over a long time may increase the risk of breast cancer. Estrogen levels are highest during the years a woman is menstruating. - Never being pregnant or having your first child in your mid-30s or later. Never being pregnant or having your first child in your mid-30s or later. - Early menstruation. Having your first menstrual period before age 12. Early menstruation. Having your first menstrual period before age 12. - Breast density. Women with very dense breasts have a higher risk of breast cancer than women with low or normal breast density.  Breast density. Women with very dense breasts have a higher risk of breast cancer than women with low or normal breast density. -  Combination hormone replacement therapy/Hormone therapy. Estrogen, progestin, or both may be given to replace the estrogen no longer made by the ovaries in postmenopausal women or women who have had their ovaries removed. This is called hormone replacement therapy. (HRT) or hormone therapy (HT). Combination HRT/HT is estrogen combined with progestin. This type of HRT/HT can increase the risk of breast cancer.  Combination hormone replacement therapy/Hormone therapy. Estrogen, progestin, or both may be given to replace the estrogen no longer made by the ovaries in postmenopausal women or women who have had their ovaries removed. This is called hormone replacement therapy. (HRT) or hormone therapy (HT). Combination HRT/HT is estrogen combined with progestin. This type of HRT/HT can increase the risk of breast cancer. - Exposure to radiation. Radiation therapy to the chest for the treatment of cancer can increase the risk of breast cancer, starting 10 years after treatment. Radiation therapy to treat cancer in one breast does not appear to increase the risk of cancer in the other breast. Exposure to radiation. Radiation therapy to the chest for the treatment of cancer can increase the risk of breast cancer, starting 10 years after treatment. Radiation therapy to treat cancer in one breast does not appear to increase the risk of cancer in the other breast. - Obesity. Obesity increases the risk of breast cancer, especially in postmenopausal women who have not used hormone replacement therapy.  Obesity. Obesity increases the risk of breast cancer, especially in postmenopausal women who have not used hormone replacement therapy. - Alcohol. Drinking alcohol increases the risk of breast cancer. The level of risk rises as the amount of alcohol consumed rises. Alcohol. Drinking alcohol increases the risk of breast cancer. The level of risk rises as the amount of alcohol consumed rises. - Gaining weight after menopause, especially after natural menopause and/or after age 60. Gaining weight after menopause, especially after natural menopause and/or after age 60. - Race. White women are at greater risk than black women. However, black women diagnosed with breast cancer are more likely to die of the disease. Race. White women are at greater risk than black women. However, black women diagnosed with breast cancer are more likely to die of the disease. - Inherited gene changes. Women who have inherited certain changes in the genes named BRCA1 and BRCA2 have a higher risk of breast cancer, ovarian cancer and maybe colon cancer. The risk of breast cancer caused by inherited gene changes depends on the type of gene mutation, family history of cancer, and other factors. Men who have inherited certain changes in the BRCA2 gene have a higher risk of breast, prostate and pancreatic cancers, and lymphoma. Inherited gene changes. Women who have inherited certain changes in the genes named BRCA1 and BRCA2 have a higher risk of breast cancer, ovarian cancer and maybe colon cancer. The risk of breast cancer caused by inherited gene changes depends on the type of gene mutation, family history of cancer, and other factors. Men who have inherited certain changes in the BRCA2 gene have a higher risk of breast, prostate and pancreatic cancers, and lymphoma. Five percent to 10 percent of all breast cancers are thought to be inherited. Get information about the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genetic mutations and testing for them. Warning Signs When breast cancer first develops, there may be no symptoms at all. But as the cancer grows, it can cause changes that women should watch for. You can help safeguard your health by learning the following warning signs of breast cancer. -  a lump or thickening in or near the breast or in the underarm area  - a change in the size or shape of the breast  - a dimple or puckering in the skin of the breast  -  a nipple turned inward into the breast  -  fluid, other than breast milk, from the nipple, especially if it's bloody  - scaly, red, or swollen skin on the breast, nipple, or areola (the dark area of skin around the nipple)  - dimples in the breast that look like the skin of an orange. a lump or thickening in or near the breast or in the underarm area a change in the size or shape of the breast a dimple or puckering in the skin of the breast a nipple turned inward into the breast fluid, other than breast milk, from the nipple, especially if it's bloody scaly, red, or swollen skin on the breast, nipple, or areola (the dark area of skin around the nipple) dimples in the breast that look like the skin of an orange. Don't Ignore Symptoms You should see your doctor about any symptoms like these. Most often, they are not cancer, but it's important to check with the doctor so that any problems can be diagnosed and treated as early as possible. Some women believe that as they age, health problems are due to "growing older." Because of this myth, many illnesses go undiagnosed and untreated. Don't ignore your symptoms because you think they are not important or because you believe they are normal for your age. Talk to your doctor.

Question: Who is at risk for Breast Cancer? ?
Answer: What Is Cancer Prevention? Cancer prevention is action taken to lower the chance of getting cancer. By preventing cancer, the number of new cases of cancer in a group or population is lowered. Hopefully, this will lower the number of deaths caused by cancer. When studying ways to prevent cancer, scientists look at risk factors and protective factors. Anything that increases your chance of developing cancer is called a cancer risk factor. Anything that decreases your chance of developing cancer is called a cancer protective factor. Risk Factors Some risk factors for cancer can be avoided, but many cannot. For example, both smoking and inheriting certain genes are risk factors for some types of cancer, but only smoking can be avoided. Regular exercise and a healthy diet may be protective factors for some types of cancer. Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may lower your risk but it does not mean that you will not get cancer. Different ways to prevent cancer are being studied, including - changing lifestyle or eating habits  - avoiding things known to cause cancer  - taking medicine to treat a precancerous condition or to keep cancer from starting.  changing lifestyle or eating habits avoiding things known to cause cancer taking medicine to treat a precancerous condition or to keep cancer from starting. (For more on risk factors, see the chapter on "Risk Factors.") Here are protective factors for breast cancer. Less Exposure to Estrogen Decreasing the length of time a woman's breast tissue is exposed to estrogen may help lower her risk of developing breast cancer. Exposure to estrogen is reduced in the following ways. -   Early pregnancy.  Estrogen levels are lower during pregnancy. Women who have a full-term pregnancy before age 20 have a lower risk of breast cancer than women who have not had children or who give birth to their first child after age 35.  -  Breast-feeding. Estrogen levels may remain lower while a woman is breast-feeding. Women who breastfed have a lower risk of breast cancer than women who have had children but did not breastfeed.  -  Surgical removal of the ovaries.  The ovaries make estrogen. The amount of estrogen made by the body can be greatly reduced by removing one or both ovaries. Also, drugs may be taken to lower the amount of estrogen made by the ovaries.  -  Late menstruation. Menstrual periods that start at age 14 or older decreases the number of years the breast tissue is exposed to estrogen.  - Early menopause. The fewer years a woman menstruates, the shorter the time her breast tissue is exposed to estrogen.   Early pregnancy.  Estrogen levels are lower during pregnancy. Women who have a full-term pregnancy before age 20 have a lower risk of breast cancer than women who have not had children or who give birth to their first child after age 35.  Breast-feeding. Estrogen levels may remain lower while a woman is breast-feeding. Women who breastfed have a lower risk of breast cancer than women who have had children but did not breastfeed.  Surgical removal of the ovaries.  The ovaries make estrogen. The amount of estrogen made by the body can be greatly reduced by removing one or both ovaries. Also, drugs may be taken to lower the amount of estrogen made by the ovaries. Late menstruation. Menstrual periods that start at age 14 or older decreases the number of years the breast tissue is exposed to estrogen. Early menopause. The fewer years a woman menstruates, the shorter the time her breast tissue is exposed to estrogen. Exercise Women who exercise four or more hours a week have a lower risk of breast cancer. The effect of exercise on breast cancer risk may be greatest in premenopausal women who have normal or low body weight. Learn more about the benefits of exercise for older adults.  For exercises tailored to older adults, visit Go4Life, the exercise and physical activity campaign from the National Institute on Aging (NIA) at NIH. Estrogen-only Hormone Therapy After Hysterectomy Hormone therapy with estrogen only may be given to women who have had a hysterectomy. In these women, estrogen-only therapy after menopause may decrease the risk of breast cancer. There is an increased risk of stroke and heart and blood vessel disease in postmenopausal women who take estrogen after a hysterectomy. Learn about menopausal hormone therapy and cancer. Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulators (SERMs) Tamoxifen and raloxifene belong to the family of drugs called selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs). SERMs act like estrogen on some tissues in the body, but block the effect of estrogen on other tissues. Treatment with tamoxifen or raloxifene lowers the risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal women. Tamoxifen also lowers the risk of breast cancer in high-risk premenopausal women. With either drug, the reduced risk lasts for several years after treatment is stopped. Lower rates of broken bones have been noted in patients taking raloxifene. Prophylactic Mastectomy Some women who have a high risk of breast cancer may choose to have a prophylactic mastectomy (the removal of both breasts when there are no signs of cancer). The risk of breast cancer is much lower in these women and most feel less anxious about their risk of breast cancer. However, it is very important to have cancer risk assessment and counseling about the different ways to prevent breast cancer before making this decision.  Learn more about surgery to reduce the risk of breast cancer. Prophylactic Oophorectomy Premenopausal women who have a high risk of breast cancer due to certain changes in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes may choose to have a prophylactic oophorectomy (the removal of both ovaries when there are no signs of cancer). This decreases the amount of estrogen made by the body and lowers the risk of breast cancer. Prophylactic oophorectomy also lowers the risk of breast cancer in normal premenopausal women and in women with an increased risk of breast cancer due to radiation to the chest. However, it is very important to have cancer risk assessment and counseling before making this decision. The sudden drop in estrogen levels may cause the symptoms of menopause to begin. These include hot flashes, trouble sleeping, anxiety, and depression. Long-term effects include decreased sex drive, vaginal dryness, and decreased bone density. Unclear As Risk Factors It is not clear whether the following affect the risk of breast cancer. - Oral contraceptives. Taking oral contraceptives ("the pill") may slightly increase the risk of breast cancer in current users. This risk decreases over time. Some oral contraceptives contain estrogen. Progestin-only contraceptives that are injected or implanted do not appear to increase the risk of breast cancer.  - Environment. Studies have not proven that being exposed to certain substances in the environment, such as chemicals, increases the risk of breast cancer.  Oral contraceptives. Taking oral contraceptives ("the pill") may slightly increase the risk of breast cancer in current users. This risk decreases over time. Some oral contraceptives contain estrogen. Progestin-only contraceptives that are injected or implanted do not appear to increase the risk of breast cancer. Environment. Studies have not proven that being exposed to certain substances in the environment, such as chemicals, increases the risk of breast cancer. For More Information Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about clinical trials can be found at  http://www.cancer.gov/clinicaltrials on the website of the National Cancer Institute (NCI). Check NCI's list of cancer clinical trials for breast cancer prevention trials that are now accepting patients.

Question: Who is at risk for Breast Cancer? ?
Answer: Did You Know: Breast Cancer Statistics? Breast cancer is one of the most common cancers in American women. It is most common among women between the ages of 45-85. Today, more women are surviving breast cancer than ever before. Over two million women are breast cancer survivors. (Watch the video to learn more about breast cancer survival rates. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.) Men can get breast cancer too, although they account for only one percent of all reported cases. Read more about breast cancer in men.

Question: Who is at risk for Breast Cancer? ?
Answer: Risk factors are conditions or agents that increase a person's chances of getting a disease. Here are the most common risk factors for breast cancer. - Personal and family history. A personal history of breast cancer or breast cancer among one or more of your close relatives, such as a sister, mother, or daughter.  - Estrogen levels in the body. High estrogen levels over a long time may increase the risk of breast cancer. Estrogen levels are highest during the years a woman is menstruating.  - Never being pregnant or having your first child in your mid-30s or later.  - Early menstruation. Having your first menstrual period before age 12.  -  Breast density. Women with very dense breasts have a higher risk of breast cancer than women with low or normal breast density.   -  Combination hormone replacement therapy/Hormone therapy. Estrogen, progestin, or both may be given to replace the estrogen no longer made by the ovaries in postmenopausal women or women who have had their ovaries removed. This is called hormone replacement therapy. (HRT) or hormone therapy (HT). Combination HRT/HT is estrogen combined with progestin. This type of HRT/HT can increase the risk of breast cancer.   - Exposure to radiation. Radiation therapy to the chest for the treatment of cancer can increase the risk of breast cancer, starting 10 years after treatment. Radiation therapy to treat cancer in one breast does not appear to increase the risk of cancer in the other breast.  - Obesity. Obesity increases the risk of breast cancer, especially in postmenopausal women who have not used hormone replacement therapy.   - Alcohol. Drinking alcohol increases the risk of breast cancer. The level of risk rises as the amount of alcohol consumed rises.  - Gaining weight after menopause, especially after natural menopause and/or after age 60.  - Race. White women are at greater risk than black women. However, black women diagnosed with breast cancer are more likely to die of the disease.  - Inherited gene changes. Women who have inherited certain changes in the genes named BRCA1 and BRCA2 have a higher risk of breast cancer, ovarian cancer and maybe colon cancer. The risk of breast cancer caused by inherited gene changes depends on the type of gene mutation, family history of cancer, and other factors. Men who have inherited certain changes in the BRCA2 gene have a higher risk of breast, prostate and pancreatic cancers, and lymphoma.    Five percent to 10 percent of all breast cancers are thought to be inherited.    Personal and family history. A personal history of breast cancer or breast cancer among one or more of your close relatives, such as a sister, mother, or daughter. Estrogen levels in the body. High estrogen levels over a long time may increase the risk of breast cancer. Estrogen levels are highest during the years a woman is menstruating. Never being pregnant or having your first child in your mid-30s or later. Early menstruation. Having your first menstrual period before age 12. Breast density. Women with very dense breasts have a higher risk of breast cancer than women with low or normal breast density. Combination hormone replacement therapy/Hormone therapy. Estrogen, progestin, or both may be given to replace the estrogen no longer made by the ovaries in postmenopausal women or women who have had their ovaries removed. This is called hormone replacement therapy. (HRT) or hormone therapy (HT). Combination HRT/HT is estrogen combined with progestin. This type of HRT/HT can increase the risk of breast cancer. Exposure to radiation. Radiation therapy to the chest for the treatment of cancer can increase the risk of breast cancer, starting 10 years after treatment. Radiation therapy to treat cancer in one breast does not appear to increase the risk of cancer in the other breast. Obesity. Obesity increases the risk of breast cancer, especially in postmenopausal women who have not used hormone replacement therapy. Alcohol. Drinking alcohol increases the risk of breast cancer. The level of risk rises as the amount of alcohol consumed rises. Gaining weight after menopause, especially after natural menopause and/or after age 60. Race. White women are at greater risk than black women. However, black women diagnosed with breast cancer are more likely to die of the disease. Inherited gene changes. Women who have inherited certain changes in the genes named BRCA1 and BRCA2 have a higher risk of breast cancer, ovarian cancer and maybe colon cancer. The risk of breast cancer caused by inherited gene changes depends on the type of gene mutation, family history of cancer, and other factors. Men who have inherited certain changes in the BRCA2 gene have a higher risk of breast, prostate and pancreatic cancers, and lymphoma.    Five percent to 10 percent of all breast cancers are thought to be inherited.   Get information about the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genetic mutations and testing for them. This chart shows what the approximate chances are of a woman getting invasive breast cancer in her lifetime.

Question: Who is at risk for Breast Cancer? ?
Answer: The risks of breast cancer screening tests include the following. - Finding breast cancer may not improve health or help a woman live longer. Screening may not help you if you have fast-growing breast cancer or if it has already spread to other places in your body. Also, some breast cancers found on a screening mammogram may never cause symptoms or become life-threatening. Finding these cancers is called overdiagnosis.  Finding breast cancer may not improve health or help a woman live longer. Screening may not help you if you have fast-growing breast cancer or if it has already spread to other places in your body. Also, some breast cancers found on a screening mammogram may never cause symptoms or become life-threatening. Finding these cancers is called overdiagnosis. - False-negative test results can occur. Screening test results may appear to be normal even though breast cancer is present. A woman who receives a false-negative test result (one that shows there is no cancer when there really is) may delay seeking medical care even if she has symptoms. False-negative test results can occur. Screening test results may appear to be normal even though breast cancer is present. A woman who receives a false-negative test result (one that shows there is no cancer when there really is) may delay seeking medical care even if she has symptoms. - False-positive test results can occur. Screening test results may appear to be abnormal even though no cancer is present. A false-positive test result (one that shows there is cancer when there really isnt) is usually followed by more tests (such as biopsy), which also have risks.  False-positive test results can occur. Screening test results may appear to be abnormal even though no cancer is present. A false-positive test result (one that shows there is cancer when there really isnt) is usually followed by more tests (such as biopsy), which also have risks. - Anxiety from additional testing may result from false positive results. In one study, women who had a false-positive screening mammogram followed by more testing reported feeling anxiety 3 months later, even though cancer was not diagnosed. However, several studies show that women who feel anxiety after false-positive test results are more likely to schedule regular breast screening exams in the future. Anxiety from additional testing may result from false positive results. In one study, women who had a false-positive screening mammogram followed by more testing reported feeling anxiety 3 months later, even though cancer was not diagnosed. However, several studies show that women who feel anxiety after false-positive test results are more likely to schedule regular breast screening exams in the future. - Mammograms expose the breast to radiation. Being exposed to radiation is a risk factor for breast cancer. The risk of breast cancer from radiation exposure is higher in women who received radiation before age 30 and at high doses. For women older than 40 years, the benefits of an annual screening mammogram may be greater than the risks from radiation exposure.  Mammograms expose the breast to radiation. Being exposed to radiation is a risk factor for breast cancer. The risk of breast cancer from radiation exposure is higher in women who received radiation before age 30 and at high doses. For women older than 40 years, the benefits of an annual screening mammogram may be greater than the risks from radiation exposure. - There may be pain or discomfort during a mammogram. During a mammogram, the breast is placed between 2 plates that are pressed together. Pressing the breast helps to get a better x-ray of the breast. Some women have pain or discomfort during a mammogram.  There may be pain or discomfort during a mammogram. During a mammogram, the breast is placed between 2 plates that are pressed together. Pressing the breast helps to get a better x-ray of the breast. Some women have pain or discomfort during a mammogram. Some women worry about radiation exposure, but the risk of any harm from a mammogram is actually quite small. The doses of radiation used are very low and considered safe. The exact amount of radiation used during a mammogram will depend on several factors. For instance, breasts that are large or dense will require higher doses to get a clear image. Learn more about the risks of breast cancer screening.

Question: Who is at risk for Glaucoma? ?
Answer: Anyone can develop glaucoma. Some people are at higher risk than others. They include - African-Americans over age 40  - everyone over age 60, especially Hispanics/Latinos  - people with a family history of glaucoma. African-Americans over age 40 everyone over age 60, especially Hispanics/Latinos people with a family history of glaucoma.  See this graphic for a quick overview of glaucoma, including how many people it affects, whos at risk, what to do if you have it, and how to learn more.

Question: Who is at risk for Glaucoma? ?
Answer: Encourage them to have a comprehensive dilated eye exam at least once every two years. Remember -- lowering eye pressure in glaucoma's early stages slows progression of the disease and helps save vision.  Get tips on finding an eye care professional.

Question: Who is at risk for Kidney Disease? ?
Answer: Diabetes and high blood pressure are the two leading risk factors for kidney disease. Both diabetes and high blood pressure damage the small blood vessels in your kidneys and can cause kidney disease -- without you feeling it.  There are several other risk factors for kidney disease. Cardiovascular (heart) disease is a risk factor. So is family history: if you have a mother, father, sister, or brother who has had kidney disease, then you are at increased risk. African Americans, Hispanics, and Native Americans tend to have a greater risk for kidney failure. This is mostly due to higher rates of diabetes and high blood pressure in these communities, although there may be other reasons. (Watch the video to learn more about the connection between heart disease and kidney disease. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.)

Question: Who is at risk for Peripheral Arterial Disease (P.A.D.)? ?
Answer: Smoking is the main risk factor for P.A.D. Your risk of P.A.D. increases four times if you smoke. Smoking also raises your risk for other diseases, such as coronary heart disease (CHD). On average, smokers who develop P.A.D. have symptoms 10 years earlier than nonsmokers who develop P.A.D. As you get older, your risk for P.A.D. increases, usually starting in your fifties. Older age combined with other risk factors, such as smoking or diabetes, also puts you at higher risk. African American men and women have a greater risk of developing P.A.D. than Caucasians. Your risk for P.A.D. is higher if you have diabetes, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, heart disease, or have had a stroke. A family history of these conditions also makes P.A.D. more likely.

Question: Who is at risk for Diabetic Retinopathy? ?
Answer: All people with diabetes -- both type 1 and type 2 -- are at risk for diabetic retinopathy. People with diabetes are also at increased risk for cataract and glaucoma. That's why everyone with diabetes should get a comprehensive dilated eye exam at least once a year. Between 40 to 45 percent of Americans diagnosed with diabetes have some stage of diabetic retinopathy. If you have diabetic retinopathy, your doctor can recommend treatment to help prevent its progression. See how to find an eye care professional.

Question: Who is at risk for Urinary Tract Infections? ?
Answer: Although everyone has some risk for UTIs, some people are more likely to get UTIs than others. These include people who have -  spinal cord injuries or other nerve damage around the bladder   -  a blockage in the urinary tract that can trap urine in the bladder. A blockage in the urinary tract can be caused by kidney stones, an enlarged prostate, or a birth defect.   -  diabetes   -  problems with the bodys natural defense (or immune) system   -  pelvic organ prolapse, which is when pelvic organs (such as the bladder, rectum, or uterus) shift out of their normal position into the vagina. When pelvic organs are out of place, they can push on the bladder and urethra and make it hard to fully empty the bladder. This causes urine to stay in the bladder. When urine stays in the bladder too long, it makes an infection more likely.  spinal cord injuries or other nerve damage around the bladder a blockage in the urinary tract that can trap urine in the bladder. A blockage in the urinary tract can be caused by kidney stones, an enlarged prostate, or a birth defect. diabetes problems with the bodys natural defense (or immune) system pelvic organ prolapse, which is when pelvic organs (such as the bladder, rectum, or uterus) shift out of their normal position into the vagina. When pelvic organs are out of place, they can push on the bladder and urethra and make it hard to fully empty the bladder. This causes urine to stay in the bladder. When urine stays in the bladder too long, it makes an infection more likely. Learn more about risk factors for urinary tract infections.

Question: Who is at risk for Prostate Cancer? ?
Answer: Scientists don't know exactly what causes prostate cancer. They cannot explain why one man gets prostate cancer and another does not. However, they have been able to identify some risk factors that are associated with the disease. A risk factor is anything that increases your chances of getting a disease. Age Age is the most important risk factor for prostate cancer. The disease is extremely rare in men under age 40, but the risk increases greatly with age. More than 60 percent of cases are diagnosed in men over age 65. The average age at the time of diagnosis is 65. Race Race is another major risk factor. In the United States, this disease is much more common in African American men than in any other group of men. It is least common in Asian and American Indian men. Family History A man's risk for developing prostate cancer is higher if his father or brother has had the disease. Other Risk Factors Scientists have wondered whether obesity, lack of exercise, smoking, radiation exposure, might increase risk. But at this time, there is no firm evidence that these factors contribute to an increased risk.

Question: Who is at risk for Prostate Cancer? ?
Answer: Age is the most important risk factor for prostate cancer. The disease is extremely rare in men under age 40, but the risk increases greatly with age. More than 60 percent of cases are diagnosed in men over age 65. The average age at the time of diagnosis is 65.

Question: Who is at risk for Prostate Cancer? ?
Answer: Yes. Race is another major risk factor. In the United States, this disease is much more common in African American men than in any other group of men. It is least common in Asian and American Indian men. A man's risk for developing prostate cancer is higher if his father or brother has had the disease. Diet also may play a role. There is some evidence that a diet high in animal fat may increase the risk of prostate cancer and a diet high in fruits and vegetables may decrease the risk. Studies to find out whether men can reduce their risk of prostate cancer by taking certain dietary supplements are ongoing.

Question: Who is at risk for Prostate Cancer? ?
Answer: Scientists have wondered whether obesity, lack of exercise, smoking, and radiation exposure, might increase risk. But at this time, there is no conclusive evidence that any of these factors contribute to an increased risk.

Question: Who is at risk for Prostate Cancer? ?
Answer: Researchers are studying changes in genes that may increase the risk for developing prostate cancer. Some studies are looking at the genes of men who were diagnosed with prostate cancer at a relatively young age, less than 55 years old, and the genes of families who have several members with the disease. Other studies are trying to identify which genes, or arrangements of genes, are most likely to lead to prostate cancer. Much more work is needed, however, before scientists can say exactly how genetic changes relate to prostate cancer. At the moment, no genetic risk has been firmly established.

Question: Who is at risk for High Blood Pressure? ?
Answer: Not a Normal Part of Aging Nearly 1 in 3 American adults have high blood pressure. Many people get high blood pressure as they get older. However, getting high blood pressure is not a normal part of aging. There are things you can do to help keep your blood pressure normal, such as eating a healthy diet and getting more exercise. Risk Factors Anyone can develop high blood pressure. However, these factors can increase your risk for developing high blood pressure. -  age  - race or ethnicity  - being overweight  - gender  - lifestyle habits  - a family history of high blood pressure.  age race or ethnicity being overweight gender lifestyle habits a family history of high blood pressure. Age Blood pressure tends to rise with age. In fact, about 65 percent of Americans age 60 or older have high blood pressure. Race/Ethnicity High blood pressure is more common in African American adults than in Caucasian or Hispanic American adults. Compared with these ethnic groups, African Americans -  tend to get high blood pressure earlier in life  - often have higher blood pressure numbers  - are less likely to achieve target blood pressure goals with treatment. tend to get high blood pressure earlier in life often have higher blood pressure numbers are less likely to achieve target blood pressure goals with treatment. Overweight You are more likely to develop prehypertension or high blood pressure if youre overweight or obese. The terms overweight and obese refer to body weight thats greater than what is considered healthy for a certain height. Gender Before age 55, men are more likely than women to develop high blood pressure. After age 55, women are more likely than men to develop high blood pressure. Lifestyle Habits Unhealthy lifestyle habits can raise your risk for high blood pressure, and they include -  eating too much sodium or too little potassium   - lack of physical activity  - drinking too much alcohol  - smoking  - stress. eating too much sodium or too little potassium lack of physical activity drinking too much alcohol smoking stress. Family History A family history of high blood pressure raises the risk of developing prehypertension or high blood pressure. Some people have a high sensitivity to sodium and salt, which may increase their risk for high blood pressure and may run in families. Genetic causes of this condition are why family history is a risk factor for this condition.

Question: Who is at risk for Heart Failure? ?
Answer: Preventing Heart Failure There are a number of things you can do to reduce the risk for coronary artery disease and heart failure. These things include - keeping your cholesterol levels healthy  - keeping your blood pressure at a normal level  - managing diabetes   - maintaining a healthy weight   - quitting smoking  - limiting the amount of alcohol you drink  - following a heart healthy diet  - limiting the amount of sodium (salt) you consume  - getting regular exercise   - avoiding using illegal drugs. keeping your cholesterol levels healthy keeping your blood pressure at a normal level managing diabetes maintaining a healthy weight quitting smoking limiting the amount of alcohol you drink following a heart healthy diet limiting the amount of sodium (salt) you consume getting regular exercise avoiding using illegal drugs. Keep Your Cholesterol Levels Healthy Keeping your cholesterol levels healthy can help prevent coronary artery disease. Your goal for LDL, or "bad," cholesterol, depends on how many other risk factors you have. Risk factors include - being a cigarette smoker  -  having high blood pressure   -  having low HDL cholesterol  -  being 45 or older if you are a man and 55 or older if you are a woman  -  having a close relative who had coronary artery disease at an earlier-than-usual age (before age 55 for male relatives and before age 65 for female relatives).  being a cigarette smoker having high blood pressure having low HDL cholesterol being 45 or older if you are a man and 55 or older if you are a woman having a close relative who had coronary artery disease at an earlier-than-usual age (before age 55 for male relatives and before age 65 for female relatives). Recommended LDL Cholesterol Goals -  If you don't have coronary heart disease or diabetes and have one or no risk factors, your LDL goal is less than 160 mg/dL.  - If you don't have coronary heart disease or diabetes and have two or more risk factors, your LDL goal is less than 130 mg/dL.  - If you do have coronary heart disease or diabetes, your LDL goal is less than 100 mg/dL.   - The goal for HDL, or "good," cholesterol is above 40 in men and above 50 in women.  - The goal for triglycerides, another fat in the blood, is below 150.  If you don't have coronary heart disease or diabetes and have one or no risk factors, your LDL goal is less than 160 mg/dL. If you don't have coronary heart disease or diabetes and have two or more risk factors, your LDL goal is less than 130 mg/dL. If you do have coronary heart disease or diabetes, your LDL goal is less than 100 mg/dL. The goal for HDL, or "good," cholesterol is above 40 in men and above 50 in women. The goal for triglycerides, another fat in the blood, is below 150. Learn how to control your cholesterol with TLC -- Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes.  Keep Blood Pressure at a Normal Level High blood pressure causes the heart to get larger and work harder, which can then lead to heart failure. You should aim for a blood pressure level of 130/80 or below. Talk to your doctor about ways to lower your blood pressure.  Get tips on how to control your blood pressure.  Manage Diabetes If you have diabetes, its important to manage it properly. Diabetes is characterized by having too much glucose, or sugar, in the blood for a long time. This can cause heart problems because high blood glucose can damage parts of the body such as the heart and blood vessels. This damage weakens the heart, often leading to heart failure. See ways to manage your diabetes every day.  Maintain a Healthy Weight Excess weight puts strain on the heart. Being overweight also increases your risk of heart disease and type 2 diabetes. These diseases can lead to heart failure.  See a sensible approach to weight loss.  Don't Smoke If you smoke, quit. For free help quitting, call a smoking quit line.  See medications to help you quit.  Follow a Heart Healthy Diet Heart-healthy foods include those high in fiber, such as oat bran, oatmeal, whole-grain breads and cereals, fruits, and vegetables. You can also maintain a heart-healthy diet by limiting foods that are high in saturated fat, trans-fat, and cholesterol, such as meats, butter, dairy products with fat, eggs, shortening, lard, and foods with palm oil or coconut oil. For more on healthy eating, see Eating Well As You Get Older. Limit the Amount of Alcohol You Drink In general, healthy men and women over age 65 should not drink more than three drinks a day or a total of seven drinks a week. Learn how alcohol affects you as get older.  Limit the Amount of Sodium Sodium contributes to high blood pressure and fluid retention. Older adults should limit their intake of sodium to1,500 milligrams daily (about 2/3 tsp. of salt).  See ways to cut back on your salt intake.  Get Regular Exericse Studies show that people with heart disease, diabetes, and high blood pressure benefit from regular exercise. In fact, inactive people are nearly twice as likely to develop heart disease as those who are more active. Aim for at least 30 minutes a day of exercise. Check with your doctor before starting any exercise program. For information on exercise and older adults, see  Benefits of Exercise or visit Go4Life, the exercise and physical activity campaign for older adults from the National Institute on Aging.

Question: Who is at risk for Heart Failure? ?
Answer: Heart failure is more common in - people who are 65 years old or older   - African-Americans  - people who are overweight   - people who have had a heart attack  - men. people who are 65 years old or older African-Americans people who are overweight people who have had a heart attack men. Aging can weaken the heart muscle. Older people also may have had diseases for many years that led to heart failure. African Americans are more likely to have heart failure than people of other races. They're also more likely to have symptoms at a younger age, have more hospital visits due to heart failure, and die from heart failure. Excess weight puts strain on the heart. Being overweight also increases your risk of heart disease and type 2 diabetes. These diseases can lead to heart failure. A history of a heart attack puts people at greater risk for heart failure. Men have a higher rate of heart failure than women.

Question: Who is at risk for Depression? ?
Answer: The risk factors for depression are family history, life experiences, and environment. If you have depression, you may have experienced it when you were younger, and may have a family history of the illness. You may also be going through difficult life events, such as physical or psychological trauma, losing a loved one, a difficult relationship with a family member or friend, or financial troubles. Any of these stressful experiences can lead to depression. For older adults who experience depression for the first time later in life, other factors may be at play. Depression may be related to changes that occur in the brain and body as a person ages. For example, some older adults who are at risk for illnesses such as heart disease or stroke may have hardening and inflammation of the blood vessels, and blood may not be able to flow normally to the body's organs, including the brain. Over time, this blood vessel disease and restricted blood flow can damage nearby brain tissue and harm the nerve connections that help different parts of the brain communicate with each other. If this happens, an older adult with no family history of depression may develop what some doctors call "vascular depression." Older adults may also experience depression as a result of brain changes caused by illnesses such as Alzheimers disease or Parkinsons disease. This type of depression can appear in the early stages of these diseases, before many symptoms appear.

Question: Who is at risk for Creating a Family Health History? ?
Answer: Diseases Can Have Various Causes  Many things influence your overall health and likelihood of developing a disease. Sometimes, it's not clear what causes a disease. Many diseases are thought to be caused by a combination of genetic, lifestyle, and environmental factors. The importance of any particular factor varies from person to person. If you have a disease, does that mean your children and grandchildren will get it, too? Not necessarily. They may have a greater chance of developing the disease than someone without a similar family history. But they are not certain to get the disease. (Watch the video to learn more about why family health history is important. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.) Health Problems That May Run in Families Common health problems that can run in a family include: - Alzheimer's disease/dementia  - arthritis  - asthma  - blood clots   - cancer  - depression  - diabetes  - heart disease  - high cholesterol  - high blood pressure  - pregnancy losses and birth defects  - stroke. Alzheimer's disease/dementia arthritis asthma blood clots cancer depression diabetes heart disease high cholesterol high blood pressure pregnancy losses and birth defects stroke.  Learn more about the importance of family history in some of these health problems at Diseases, Genetics and Family History.  (Center for Disease Control and Prevention) Heritable Diseases Some diseases are clearly heritable. This means the disease comes from a mutation, or harmful change, in a gene inherited from one or both parents. Genes are small structures in your body's cells that determine how you look and tell your body how to work. Examples of heritable diseases are Huntington's disease, cystic fibrosis, and muscular dystrophy. Learn basic information about chromosomes. Learn basic information about DNA. Role of Lifestyle and Environment Genes are not the only things that cause disease. Lifestyle habits and environment also play a major part in developing disease. Diet, weight, physical activity, tobacco and alcohol use, occupation, and where you live can each increase or decrease disease risk. For example, smoking increases the chance of developing heart disease and cancer. For common diseases like heart disease and cancer, habits like smoking or drinking too much alcohol may be more important in causing disease than genes. Sun exposure is the major known environmental factor associated with the development of skin cancer of all types. However, other environmental and genetic factors can also increase a persons risk. The best defense against skin cancer is to encourage sun-protective behaviors, regular skin examinations, and skin self-awareness in an effort to decrease high-risk behaviors and optimize early detection of problems.  Learn more about the causes and risk factors for skin cancer.  Clues to Your Disease Risk Creating a family health history helps you know about diseases and disease risks. It can also show the way a disease occurs in a family. For example, you may find that a family member had a certain disease at an earlier age than usual (10 to 20 years before most people get it). That can increase other family members' risk. Risk also goes up if a relative has a disease that usually does not affect a certain gender, for example, breast cancer in a man. Certain combinations of diseases within a family -- such as breast and ovarian cancer, or heart disease and diabetes -- also increase the chance of developing those diseases. Some Risk Factors Are Not Apparent Even if they appear healthy, people could be at risk for developing a serious disease that runs in the family. They could have risk factors that they cannot feel, such as high blood pressure. They might not even know the disease runs in their family because they've lost touch with family members with the disease or because other family members with the disease have kept the information private. Another possibility is that family members who might have developed the disease died young in accidents or by other means. They might also be adopted and not share genes with members of their adoptive family. Getting Professional Advice Family members who think they might be at risk for a disease based on their family health history can ask their health care professionals for advice. The professional may order a test to see if the person has the disease or a risk factor for the disease. For instance, a mammogram can detect possible breast cancer, and a colonoscopy can find colon cancer. Many diseases are more treatable if they are caught early. The first step toward better understanding of your family's health is to learn more about the health of close relatives such as parents, brothers and sisters, and children. Creating a family health history is one way to do that.

Question: Who is at risk for Diabetes? ?
Answer: Diabetes is a serious, life-long disease. It can lead to problems such as heart disease, stroke, vision loss, kidney disease, and nerve damage. More than 8 million people in the United States have type 2 diabetes and dont know it. Many people dont find out they have diabetes until they are faced with problems such as blurry vision or heart trouble. Certain factors can increase your risk for diabetes, and its important to know what they are. Type 1 Diabetes Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disease. In an autoimmune reaction, antibodies, or immune cells, attach to the bodys own healthy tissues by mistake, signaling the body to attack them. At present, scientists do not know exactly what causes the body's immune system to attack the cells, but many believe that both genetic factors and environmental factors, such as viruses, are involved. Studies are now underway to identify these factors and prevent type 1 diabetes in people at risk.  Learn more about the causes of type 1 diabetes.  Type 2 Diabetes Type 2 diabetes -- the most common form -- is linked closely to overweight and obesity, high blood pressure, and abnormal cholesterol levels. Many people with type 2 diabetes are overweight. Being overweight can keep your body from using insulin properly. Genes also play an important role in a person's risk for type 2 diabetes. Having certain genes or combinations of genes may increase or decrease a persons risk for developing the disease.  Here are the risk factors for type 2 diabetes. -  being over 45 years of age  -  being overweight or obese  - having a first-degree relative -- a parent, brother, or sister -- with diabetes  - being African American, American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian American or Pacific Islander, or Hispanic American/Latino. (Watch the video to learn more about native Americans and diabetes risk. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.) being over 45 years of age being overweight or obese having a first-degree relative -- a parent, brother, or sister -- with diabetes being African American, American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian American or Pacific Islander, or Hispanic American/Latino. (Watch the video to learn more about native Americans and diabetes risk. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.) - having gestational diabetes, or giving birth to at least one baby weighing more than 9 pounds  - having blood pressure of 140/90 or higher, or having been told that you have high blood pressure.  - having abnormal cholesterol levels -- an HDL cholesterol level of 35 or lower, or a triglyceride level of 250 or higher  - being inactive or exercising fewer than three times a week.  - having polycystic ovary syndrome, also called PCOS (women only)  - on previous testing, having prediabetes (an A1C level of 5.7 to 6.4 percent), impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) or impaired fasting glucose (IFG)  - history of cardiovascular disease (disease affecting the heart and blood vessels). having gestational diabetes, or giving birth to at least one baby weighing more than 9 pounds having blood pressure of 140/90 or higher, or having been told that you have high blood pressure. having abnormal cholesterol levels -- an HDL cholesterol level of 35 or lower, or a triglyceride level of 250 or higher being inactive or exercising fewer than three times a week. having polycystic ovary syndrome, also called PCOS (women only) on previous testing, having prediabetes (an A1C level of 5.7 to 6.4 percent), impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) or impaired fasting glucose (IFG) history of cardiovascular disease (disease affecting the heart and blood vessels).  Learn more about the causes of type 2 diabetes.  Prediabetes and Type 2 Diabetes Before people develop type 2 diabetes, they usually have prediabetes -- a condition in which blood glucose levels are higher than normal, but not high enough for a diagnosis of diabetes. People with prediabetes are more likely to develop diabetes within 10 years and also are more likely to have a heart attack or stroke. Prediabetes is increasingly common in the U.S. adult population. In 2012, about 86 million people in the U.S. had pre-diabetes, and 51% of those 65 or older had prediabetes. Learn more about prediabetes.  Gestational Diabetes Some women develop diabetes during the late stages of pregnancy. This is called gestational diabetes. Although this form of diabetes usually goes away after the baby is born, a woman who has had it has a lifelong risk for developing diabetes, mostly type 2.

Question: Who is at risk for Diabetes? ?
Answer: Here are the risk factors for type 2 diabetes. -  being over 45 years of age  -  being overweight or obese  - having a first-degree relative -- a parent, brother, or sister -- with diabetes  - being African American, American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian American or Pacific Islander, or Hispanic American/Latino. (Watch the video to learn more about native Americans and diabetes risk. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.)  - having gestational diabetes, or giving birth to at least one baby weighing more than 9 pounds  - having blood pressure of 140/90 or higher, or having been told that you have high blood pressure.  - having abnormal cholesterol levels -- an HDL cholesterol level of 35 or lower, or a triglyceride level of 250 or higher  - being inactive or exercising fewer than three times a week.  - having polycystic ovary syndrome, also called PCOS (women only)  - on previous testing, having prediabetes (an A1C level of 5.7 to 6.4 percent), impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) or impaired fasting glucose (IFG)  - history of cardiovascular disease (disease affecting the heart and blood vessels). being over 45 years of age being overweight or obese having a first-degree relative -- a parent, brother, or sister -- with diabetes being African American, American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian American or Pacific Islander, or Hispanic American/Latino. (Watch the video to learn more about native Americans and diabetes risk. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.) having gestational diabetes, or giving birth to at least one baby weighing more than 9 pounds having blood pressure of 140/90 or higher, or having been told that you have high blood pressure. having abnormal cholesterol levels -- an HDL cholesterol level of 35 or lower, or a triglyceride level of 250 or higher being inactive or exercising fewer than three times a week. having polycystic ovary syndrome, also called PCOS (women only) on previous testing, having prediabetes (an A1C level of 5.7 to 6.4 percent), impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) or impaired fasting glucose (IFG) history of cardiovascular disease (disease affecting the heart and blood vessels).

Question: Who is at risk for Shingles? ?
Answer: Shingles is very common. Fifty percent of all Americans will have had shingles by the time they are 80. While shingles occurs in people of all ages, it is most common in 60-to 80-year-olds. In fact, one out of every three people 60 years or older will get shingles.

Question: Who is at risk for Shingles? ?
Answer: The leading risk factor for shingles is a history of having had chickenpox. One out of every five people who have had chickenpox is likely to get shingles. Another risk factor is aging. As we age, our natural immunity gradually loses its ability to protect against infection. The shingles virus can take advantage of this and become active again. Conditions that weaken the immune system can also put people at risk for shingles. Shingles is especially dangerous for anyone who has had cancer, radiation treatments for cancer, HIV/AIDS, or a transplant operation. Our immune system gradually loses strength as we mature. After people reach 50, the body is not able to fight off infections as easily as it once did.

Question: Who is at risk for Heart Attack? ?
Answer: Lowering your risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) can help you prevent a heart attack. Even if you already have CHD or have already had a heart attack, you can still take steps to lower your risk. These steps involve following a heart healthy lifestyle and getting ongoing care for conditions that raise your risk. Heart Healthy Lifestyle Changes You can make these lifestyle changes to lower your risk of having a heart attack. - If you smoke, quit.  - Maintain a healthy weight.  - Be as physically active as you can.  - Follow a heart healthy diet. If you smoke, quit. Maintain a healthy weight. Be as physically active as you can. Follow a heart healthy diet. If you smoke, quit.  Smoking can raise your risk of CHD and heart attack. Talk with your doctor about programs and products that can help you quit. Also, try to avoid secondhand smoke. Maintain a healthy weight.  If you're overweight or obese, work with your doctor to create a reasonable weight-loss plan that involves diet and physical activity. Controlling your weight helps you control risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) and heart attack. Be as physically active as you can. Physical activity can improve your fitness level and your health. Talk with your doctor about what types of activity are safe for you. Follow a heart healthy diet.  Following a healthy diet is an important part of a heart healthy lifestyle. Eat a healthy diet to prevent or reduce high blood pressure and high blood cholesterol, and to maintain a healthy weight. A healthy diet includes a variety of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. It also includes lean meats, poultry, fish, beans, and fat-free or low-fat milk or milk products. A healthy diet is low in saturated fat, trans fat, cholesterol, sodium (salt), and added sugars. For More Information About Healthy Eating For more information about following a healthy diet, go to the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's (NHLBI's) Aim for a Healthy Weight Web site,  Your Guide to a Healthy Heart, and  Your Guide to Lowering Your Blood Pressure With DASH. In addition, a variety of heart healthy recipes to help you plan meals is available at  Aim for a Healthy Weight. All of these resources provide general information about healthy eating. Treatment for Related Conditions Get treatment for related conditions that make having a heart attack more likely. - If you have high blood cholesterol, follow your doctor's advice about lowering it. Take medications to lower your cholesterol as directed if diet and exercise aren't enough.   -  If you have high blood pressure, follow your doctor's advice about keeping it under control. Take blood pressure medications as directed.   - If you have diabetes, sometimes called high blood sugar, try to control your blood sugar level through diet and physical activity (as your doctor recommends). If needed, take medicine as prescribed. If you have high blood cholesterol, follow your doctor's advice about lowering it. Take medications to lower your cholesterol as directed if diet and exercise aren't enough. If you have high blood pressure, follow your doctor's advice about keeping it under control. Take blood pressure medications as directed. If you have diabetes, sometimes called high blood sugar, try to control your blood sugar level through diet and physical activity (as your doctor recommends). If needed, take medicine as prescribed.

Question: Who is at risk for Heart Attack? ?
Answer: Certain factors increase the risk of developing coronary heart disease and having a heart attack. These risk factors include some things you cannot change. You are at greater risk if you -  are a man over age 45 or a woman over age 55.  -  have a family history of early heart disease -- heart disease in a father or brother before age 55 or in a mother or sister before age 65.   - have a personal history of angina or previous heart attack.   -  have had a heart procedure, such as angioplasty or heart bypass. are a man over age 45 or a woman over age 55. have a family history of early heart disease -- heart disease in a father or brother before age 55 or in a mother or sister before age 65. have a personal history of angina or previous heart attack. have had a heart procedure, such as angioplasty or heart bypass. Importantly, there are many risk factors for heart attack that you CAN change, including -  smoking  - being obese or overweight  - being physically inactive   -  having high blood pressure, high blood cholesterol or diabetes. smoking being obese or overweight being physically inactive having high blood pressure, high blood cholesterol or diabetes.

Question: Who is at risk for Heart Attack? ?
Answer: You can lower your risk of having a heart attack, even if you have already had a heart attack or have been told that your chances of having a heart attack are high. To prevent a heart attack, you will need to make lifestyle changes. You may also need to get treatment for conditions that raise your risk. Lifestyle changes you can make to lower your risk for heart attack include the following: - If you smoke, quit.  - Maintain a healthy weight. Lose weight gradually if you are overweight or obese. If you smoke, quit. Maintain a healthy weight. Lose weight gradually if you are overweight or obese. - Follow a heart healthy diet  -- such as one low in salt, saturated fat and trans fat, and calories -- to prevent or reduce high blood pressure and high blood cholesterol and maintain a healthy weight.  - Be as physically active as you can. Follow a heart healthy diet  -- such as one low in salt, saturated fat and trans fat, and calories -- to prevent or reduce high blood pressure and high blood cholesterol and maintain a healthy weight. Be as physically active as you can. Get treatment for related conditions that might make having a heart attack more likely. - If you have high blood cholesterol, follow your doctor's advice about lowering it. Take medications to lower your cholesterol as directed.  - If you have high blood pressure, follow your doctor's advice about keeping it under control. Take blood pressure medications as directed.  - If you have diabetes, sometimes called high blood sugar, follow your doctor's advice about keeping blood sugar levels under control. Take your medicines as directed. If you have high blood cholesterol, follow your doctor's advice about lowering it. Take medications to lower your cholesterol as directed. If you have high blood pressure, follow your doctor's advice about keeping it under control. Take blood pressure medications as directed. If you have diabetes, sometimes called high blood sugar, follow your doctor's advice about keeping blood sugar levels under control. Take your medicines as directed.

Question: Who is at risk for Colorectal Cancer? ?
Answer: Scientists don't know exactly what causes colorectal cancer, but they have been able to identify some risk factors for the disease. A risk factor is anything that increases your chances of getting a disease. Studies show that the following risk factors may increase a person's chances of developing colorectal cancer: age, polyps, personal history, family history, and ulcerative colitis. Age Colorectal cancer is more likely to occur as people get older. It is more common in people over the age of 50, but younger people can get it, too. In rare cases, it can occur in adolescence. Polyps Polyps are benign, or non-cancerous, growths on the inner wall of the colon and rectum. They are fairly common in people over age 50. Some types of polyps increase a person's risk of developing colorectal cancer. Not all polyps become cancerous, but nearly all colon cancers start as polyps. Diet The link between diet and colorectal cancer is not firmly established. There is evidence that smoking cigarettes and drinking 3 or more alcoholic beverages daily may be associated with an increased risk of colorectal cancer. Personal History Research shows that women with a history of cancer of the ovary, uterus, or breast have a somewhat increased chance of developing colorectal cancer. Also, a person who has already had colorectal cancer may develop this disease a second time. Family History The parents, siblings, and children of a person who has had colorectal cancer are somewhat more likely to develop this type of cancer themselves. This is especially true if the relative had the cancer at a young age. If many family members have had colorectal cancer, the chances increase even more. Ulcerative colitis Ulcerative colitis is a condition in which there is a chronic break in the lining of the colon. Having this condition increases a person's chance of developing colorectal cancer. Genetic Mutations Researchers have identified genetic mutations, or abnormalities, that may be linked to the development of colon cancer. They are working to unravel the exact ways these genetic changes occur. Recent results from The Cancer Genome Atlas study of colorectal cancer point to several genes (BRAF and EGRF among others) that may increase risk. If You Have Risk Factors If you have one or more of these risk factors, it doesn't mean you will get colorectal cancer. It just increases the chances. You may wish to talk to your doctor about these risk factors. He or she may be able to suggest ways you can reduce your chances of developing colorectal cancer and plan an appropriate schedule for checkups.

Question: Who is at risk for Colorectal Cancer? ?
Answer: Studies show that the following risk factors may increase a person's chances of developing colorectal cancer: age, polyps, personal history, family history, and ulcerative colitis.

Question: Who is at risk for Colorectal Cancer? ?
Answer: Yes. Ulcerative colitis is a condition in which there is a chronic break in the lining of the colon. It has been associated with an increased risk of colon cancer.

Question: Who is at risk for Colorectal Cancer? ?
Answer: Researchers are working hard to understand and identify the genes involved in colorectal cancer. Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer, or HNPCC, is one condition that causes people to develop colorectal cancer at a young age. The discovery of four genes involved with this disease has provided crucial clues about the role of DNA repair in colorectal and other cancers.

Question: Who is at risk for Osteoporosis? ?
Answer: Risk Factors You Can't Change   Some risk factors for osteoporosis cannot be changed. These include - Gender. Women are at higher risk for osteoporosis than men. They have smaller bones and lose bone more rapidly than men do because of hormone changes that occur after menopause. Therefore, if you are a woman, you are at higher risk for osteoporosis.  - Age. Because bones become thinner with age, the older you are, the greater your risk of osteoporosis.  - Ethnicity. Caucasian and Asian women are at the highest risk for osteoporosis. This is mainly due to differences in bone mass and density compared with other ethnic groups. African-American and Hispanic women are also at risk, but less so.  - Family History. Osteoporosis tends to run in families. If a family member has osteoporosis or breaks a bone, there is a greater chance that you will too.  - History of Previous Fracture. People who have had a fracture after the age of 50 are at high risk of having another. Gender. Women are at higher risk for osteoporosis than men. They have smaller bones and lose bone more rapidly than men do because of hormone changes that occur after menopause. Therefore, if you are a woman, you are at higher risk for osteoporosis. Age. Because bones become thinner with age, the older you are, the greater your risk of osteoporosis. Ethnicity. Caucasian and Asian women are at the highest risk for osteoporosis. This is mainly due to differences in bone mass and density compared with other ethnic groups. African-American and Hispanic women are also at risk, but less so. Family History. Osteoporosis tends to run in families. If a family member has osteoporosis or breaks a bone, there is a greater chance that you will too. History of Previous Fracture. People who have had a fracture after the age of 50 are at high risk of having another. Risk Factors You Can Change There are other risk factors for osteoporosis that can be changed. -  Poor diet. Getting too little calcium over your lifetime can increase your risk for osteoporosis. Not getting enough vitamin D -- either from your diet, supplements, or sunlight -- can also increase your risk for osteoporosis. Vitamin D is important because it helps the body absorb calcium. An overall diet adequate in protein and other vitamins and minerals is also essential for bone health.  - Physical inactivity. Not exercising and being inactive or staying in bed for long periods can increase your risk of developing osteoporosis. Like muscles, bones become stronger with exercise.  - Smoking. Cigarette smokers may absorb less calcium from their diets. In addition, women who smoke have lower levels of estrogen in their bodies.  Learn more about smoking and bone health.   Poor diet. Getting too little calcium over your lifetime can increase your risk for osteoporosis. Not getting enough vitamin D -- either from your diet, supplements, or sunlight -- can also increase your risk for osteoporosis. Vitamin D is important because it helps the body absorb calcium. An overall diet adequate in protein and other vitamins and minerals is also essential for bone health. Physical inactivity. Not exercising and being inactive or staying in bed for long periods can increase your risk of developing osteoporosis. Like muscles, bones become stronger with exercise. Smoking. Cigarette smokers may absorb less calcium from their diets. In addition, women who smoke have lower levels of estrogen in their bodies.  Learn more about smoking and bone health.   - Medications. Some commonly used medicines can cause loss of bone mass. These include a type of steroid called glucocorticoids, which are used to control diseases such as arthritis and asthma; some antiseizure drugs; some medicines that treat endometriosis; and some cancer drugs. Using too much thyroid hormone for an underactive thyroid can also be a problem. Talk to your doctor about the medications you are taking and what you can do to protect your bones.   - Low body weight. Women who are thin -- and small-boned -- are at greater risk for osteoporosis.  Medications. Some commonly used medicines can cause loss of bone mass. These include a type of steroid called glucocorticoids, which are used to control diseases such as arthritis and asthma; some antiseizure drugs; some medicines that treat endometriosis; and some cancer drugs. Using too much thyroid hormone for an underactive thyroid can also be a problem. Talk to your doctor about the medications you are taking and what you can do to protect your bones. Low body weight. Women who are thin -- and small-boned -- are at greater risk for osteoporosis.  Use this checklist to find out if you are at risk for weak bones.  Many of these risk factors, both ones you can change and ones you cannot change, affect peak bone mass, which is when your bones achieve maximum strength and density. Because high peak bone density can reduce osteoporosis risk later in life, it makes sense to pay more attention to those factors that affect peak bone mass. Learn more about peak bone mass.

Question: Who is at risk for Osteoporosis? ?
Answer: Some risk factors for osteoporosis cannot be changed. These include - Gender. Women are at higher risk for osteoporosis than men. They have smaller bones and lose bone more rapidly than men do because of hormone changes that occur after menopause. Therefore, if you are a woman, you are at higher risk for osteoporosis.  - Age. Because bones become thinner with age, the older you are, the greater your risk of osteoporosis.  - Ethnicity. Caucasian and Asian women are at the highest risk for osteoporosis. This is mainly due to differences in bone mass and density compared with other ethnic groups. African-American and Hispanic women are also at risk, but less so.  - Family History. Osteoporosis tends to run in families. If a family member has osteoporosis or breaks a bone, there is a greater chance that you will too.  - History of Previous Fracture. People who have had a fracture after the age of 50 are at high risk of having another. Gender. Women are at higher risk for osteoporosis than men. They have smaller bones and lose bone more rapidly than men do because of hormone changes that occur after menopause. Therefore, if you are a woman, you are at higher risk for osteoporosis. Age. Because bones become thinner with age, the older you are, the greater your risk of osteoporosis. Ethnicity. Caucasian and Asian women are at the highest risk for osteoporosis. This is mainly due to differences in bone mass and density compared with other ethnic groups. African-American and Hispanic women are also at risk, but less so. Family History. Osteoporosis tends to run in families. If a family member has osteoporosis or breaks a bone, there is a greater chance that you will too. History of Previous Fracture. People who have had a fracture after the age of 50 are at high risk of having another.

Question: Who is at risk for Osteoporosis? ?
Answer: Here are risk factors for osteoporosis that you can control. -  Poor diet. Getting too little calcium over your lifetime can increase your risk for osteoporosis. Not getting enough vitamin D -- either from your diet, supplements, or sunlight -- can also increase your risk for osteoporosis. Vitamin D is important because it helps the body absorb calcium. An overall diet adequate in protein and other vitamins and minerals is also essential for bone health.  - Physical inactivity. Not exercising and being inactive or staying in bed for long periods can increase your risk of developing osteoporosis. Like muscles, bones become stronger with exercise.  - Smoking. Cigarette smokers may absorb less calcium from their diets. In addition, women who smoke have lower levels of estrogen in their bodies.  Learn more about smoking and bone health.    - Medications.  Some commonly used medicines can cause loss of bone mass. These include a type of steroid called glucocorticoids, which are used to control diseases such as arthritis and asthma; some antiseizure drugs; some medicines that treat endometriosis; and some cancer drugs. Using too much thyroid hormone for an underactive thyroid can also be a problem. Talk to your doctor about the medications you are taking and what you can do to protect your bones.  - Low body weight. Women who are thin -- and small-boned -- are at greater risk for osteoporosis. Poor diet. Getting too little calcium over your lifetime can increase your risk for osteoporosis. Not getting enough vitamin D -- either from your diet, supplements, or sunlight -- can also increase your risk for osteoporosis. Vitamin D is important because it helps the body absorb calcium. An overall diet adequate in protein and other vitamins and minerals is also essential for bone health. Physical inactivity. Not exercising and being inactive or staying in bed for long periods can increase your risk of developing osteoporosis. Like muscles, bones become stronger with exercise. Smoking. Cigarette smokers may absorb less calcium from their diets. In addition, women who smoke have lower levels of estrogen in their bodies.  Learn more about smoking and bone health.  Medications.  Some commonly used medicines can cause loss of bone mass. These include a type of steroid called glucocorticoids, which are used to control diseases such as arthritis and asthma; some antiseizure drugs; some medicines that treat endometriosis; and some cancer drugs. Using too much thyroid hormone for an underactive thyroid can also be a problem. Talk to your doctor about the medications you are taking and what you can do to protect your bones. Low body weight. Women who are thin -- and small-boned -- are at greater risk for osteoporosis.

Question: Who is at risk for Osteoporosis? ?
Answer: If you have any of these red flags, you could be at high risk for weak bones. Talk to your doctor, nurse, pharmacist, or other health care professional. Do any of these apply to you? - ____ Im older than 65.  - ____ Ive broken a bone after age 50.  - ____ My close relative has osteoporosis or has broken a bone.   - ____ My health is fair or poor.   - ____ I smoke.   - ____ I am underweight for my height.  - ____ I started menopause before age 45.  - ____ Ive never gotten enough calcium.  - ____ I have more than two drinks of alcohol several times a week.  - ____ I have poor vision, even with glasses.  - ____ I sometimes fall.  - ____ Im not active.  - ____ I have one of these medical conditions:       - Hyperthyroidism    - Chronic lung disease    - Cancer    - Inflammatory bowel disease    - Chronic hepatic or renal disease    - Hyperparathyroidism    - Vitamin D deficiency    - Cushings disease    - Multiple sclerosis    - Rheumatoid arthritis      ____ Im older than 65. ____ Ive broken a bone after age 50. ____ My close relative has osteoporosis or has broken a bone. ____ My health is fair or poor. ____ I smoke. ____ I am underweight for my height. ____ I started menopause before age 45. ____ Ive never gotten enough calcium. ____ I have more than two drinks of alcohol several times a week. ____ I have poor vision, even with glasses. ____ I sometimes fall. ____ Im not active. ____ I have one of these medical conditions:     - Hyperthyroidism   - Chronic lung disease   - Cancer   - Inflammatory bowel disease   - Chronic hepatic or renal disease   - Hyperparathyroidism   - Vitamin D deficiency   - Cushings disease   - Multiple sclerosis   - Rheumatoid arthritis    - Hyperthyroidism  - Chronic lung disease  - Cancer  - Inflammatory bowel disease  - Chronic hepatic or renal disease  - Hyperparathyroidism  - Vitamin D deficiency  - Cushings disease  - Multiple sclerosis  - Rheumatoid arthritis  Hyperthyroidism Chronic lung disease Cancer Inflammatory bowel disease Chronic hepatic or renal disease Hyperparathyroidism Vitamin D deficiency Cushings disease Multiple sclerosis Rheumatoid arthritis - ____ I take one of these medicines:       - Oral glucocorticoids (steroids)     - Cancer treatments (radiation, chemotherapy)    - Thyroid medicine    - Antiepileptic medications    - Gonadal hormone suppression    - Immunosuppressive agents     ____ I take one of these medicines:     - Oral glucocorticoids (steroids)    - Cancer treatments (radiation, chemotherapy)   - Thyroid medicine   - Antiepileptic medications   - Gonadal hormone suppression   - Immunosuppressive agents   - Oral glucocorticoids (steroids)   - Cancer treatments (radiation, chemotherapy)  - Thyroid medicine  - Antiepileptic medications  - Gonadal hormone suppression  - Immunosuppressive agents Oral glucocorticoids (steroids) Cancer treatments (radiation, chemotherapy) Thyroid medicine Antiepileptic medications Gonadal hormone suppression Immunosuppressive agents

Question: Who is at risk for Osteoporosis? ?
Answer: Women have smaller bones, and they lose bone more rapidly than men because of hormone changes that occur after menopause. Therefore, women are at higher risk for osteoporosis.

Question: Who is at risk for Osteoporosis? ?
Answer: The more likely you are to fall, the higher your risk for a fracture. And more severe falls increase your risk for fractures. Factors that increase your risk of falling and of fracturing a bone include - decreased muscle strength   - poor balance  -  impaired eyesight  - impaired mental abilities   - certain medications, such as tranquilizers and muscle relaxants  - hazardous elements in your living environment, such as slippery throw rugs and icy sidewalks.  decreased muscle strength poor balance impaired eyesight impaired mental abilities certain medications, such as tranquilizers and muscle relaxants hazardous elements in your living environment, such as slippery throw rugs and icy sidewalks.

Question: Who is at risk for Stroke? ?
Answer: A risk factor is a condition or behavior that increases your chances of getting a disease. Having a risk factor for stroke doesn't mean you'll have a stroke. On the other hand, not having a risk factor doesn't mean you'll avoid a stroke. But your risk of stroke grows as the number and severity of risk factors increase. These risk factors for stroke cannot be changed by medical treatment or lifestyle changes. - Age. Although stroke risk increases with age, stroke can occur at any age. Recent studies have found that stroke rates among people under 55 grew from 13 percent in 1993-1994, to 19 percent in 2005. Experts speculate the increase may be due to a rise in risk factors such as diabetes, obesity, and high cholesterol. Age. Although stroke risk increases with age, stroke can occur at any age. Recent studies have found that stroke rates among people under 55 grew from 13 percent in 1993-1994, to 19 percent in 2005. Experts speculate the increase may be due to a rise in risk factors such as diabetes, obesity, and high cholesterol. - Gender.  Men have a higher risk for stroke, but more women die from stroke. Gender.  Men have a higher risk for stroke, but more women die from stroke. - Race. People from certain ethnic groups have a higher risk of stroke. For African Americans, stroke is more common and more deadly  even in young and middle-aged adults  than for any ethnic or other racial group in the U.S. Studies show that the age-adjusted incidence of stroke is about twice as high in African Americans and Hispanic Americans as in Caucasians. An important risk factor for African Americans is sickle cell disease, which can cause a narrowing of arteries and disrupt blood flow. Race. People from certain ethnic groups have a higher risk of stroke. For African Americans, stroke is more common and more deadly  even in young and middle-aged adults  than for any ethnic or other racial group in the U.S. Studies show that the age-adjusted incidence of stroke is about twice as high in African Americans and Hispanic Americans as in Caucasians. An important risk factor for African Americans is sickle cell disease, which can cause a narrowing of arteries and disrupt blood flow. - Family history of stroke. Stroke seems to run in some families. Several factors may contribute to familial stroke. Members of a family might have a genetic tendency for stroke risk factors, such as an inherited predisposition for high blood pressure (hypertension) or diabetes. The influence of a common lifestyle among family members could also contribute to familial stroke. Family history of stroke. Stroke seems to run in some families. Several factors may contribute to familial stroke. Members of a family might have a genetic tendency for stroke risk factors, such as an inherited predisposition for high blood pressure (hypertension) or diabetes. The influence of a common lifestyle among family members could also contribute to familial stroke. Some of the most important risk factors for stroke that CAN be treated are - high blood pressure  - smoking  - heart disease  -  high blood cholesterol  - warning signs or history of a stroke  - diabetes. high blood pressure smoking heart disease high blood cholesterol warning signs or history of a stroke diabetes. High Blood Pressure High blood pressure, also called hypertension, is by far the most potent risk factor for stroke. If your blood pressure is high, you and your doctor need to work out an individual strategy to bring it down to the normal range. Here are some ways to reduce blood pressure: - Maintain proper weight.  - Avoid drugs known to raise blood pressure.  - Cut down on salt.  - Eat fruits and vegetables to increase potassium in your diet.  - Exercise more. Maintain proper weight. Avoid drugs known to raise blood pressure. Cut down on salt. Eat fruits and vegetables to increase potassium in your diet. Exercise more. Your doctor may prescribe medicines that help lower blood pressure. Controlling blood pressure will also help you avoid heart disease, diabetes, and kidney failure. Smoking Cigarette smoking has been linked to the buildup of fatty substances in the carotid artery, the main neck artery supplying blood to the brain. Blockage of this artery is the leading cause of stroke in Americans. Also, nicotine raises blood pressure, carbon monoxide reduces the amount of oxygen your blood can carry to the brain, and cigarette smoke makes your blood thicker and more likely to clot. Your doctor can recommend programs and medications that may help you quit smoking. By quitting -- at any age -- you also reduce your risk of lung disease, heart disease, and a number of cancers including lung cancer. Heart Disease Heart disease, including common heart disorders such as coronary artery disease, valve defects, irregular heart beat, and enlargement of one of the heart's chambers, can result in blood clots that may break loose and block vessels in or leading to the brain. The most common blood vessel disease, caused by the buildup of fatty deposits in the arteries, is called atherosclerosis, also known as hardening of the arteries. Your doctor will treat your heart disease and may also prescribe medication, such as aspirin, to help prevent the formation of clots. Your doctor may recommend surgery to clean out a clogged neck artery if you match a particular risk profile. High Blood Cholesterol A high level of total cholesterol in the blood is a major risk factor for heart disease, which raises your risk of stroke. Your doctor may recommend changes in your diet or medicines to lower your cholesterol. Warning Signs or History of Stroke Experiencing warning signs and having a history of stroke are also risk factors for stroke. Transient ischemic attacks, or TIAs, are brief episodes of stroke warning signs that may last only a few moments and then go away. If you experience a TIA, get help at once. Call 911. If you have had a stroke in the past, it's important to reduce your risk of a second stroke. Your brain helps you recover from a stroke by drawing on body systems that now do double duty. That means a second stroke can be twice as bad. Diabetes Having diabetes is another risk factor for stroke. You may think this disorder affects only the body's ability to use sugar, or glucose. But it also causes destructive changes in the blood vessels throughout the body, including the brain. Also, if blood glucose levels are high at the time of a stroke, then brain damage is usually more severe and extensive than when blood glucose is well-controlled. Treating diabetes can delay the onset of complications that increase the risk of stroke.

Question: Who is at risk for Stroke? ?
Answer: Stroke occurs in all age groups, in both sexes, and in all races in every country. It can even occur before birth, when the fetus is still in the womb. Studies show the risk of stroke doubles for each decade between the ages of 55 and 85. However, a recent study found that stroke rates are on the rise for people under 55.

Question: Who is at risk for Stroke? ?
Answer: A risk factor is a condition or behavior that increases your chances of getting a disease. Having a risk factor for stroke doesn't mean you'll have a stroke. On the other hand, not having a risk factor doesn't mean you'll avoid a stroke. But your risk of stroke grows as the number and severity of risk factors increase. Risk factors for stroke include ones that you cannot control and ones that you can control. Some of the risk factors that you cannot control include - Age.  Although stroke can occur at any age, the risk of stroke doubles for each decade between the ages of 55 and 85.   - Gender. Men have a higher risk for stroke, but more women die from stroke. Men generally do not live as long as women, so men are usually younger when they have their strokes and therefore have a higher rate of survival.   - Race. The risk of stroke is higher among African-American and Hispanic Americans.  - Family History.  Family history of stroke increases your risk. Age.  Although stroke can occur at any age, the risk of stroke doubles for each decade between the ages of 55 and 85. Gender. Men have a higher risk for stroke, but more women die from stroke. Men generally do not live as long as women, so men are usually younger when they have their strokes and therefore have a higher rate of survival. Race. The risk of stroke is higher among African-American and Hispanic Americans. Family History.  Family history of stroke increases your risk. The risk factors for stroke that you CAN control include - high blood pressure  -  cigarette smoking   - diabetes  -  high blood cholesterol   -  heart disease.  high blood pressure cigarette smoking diabetes high blood cholesterol heart disease. Experiencing warning signs and having a history of stroke are also risk factors for stroke.

Question: Who is at risk for Leukemia? ?
Answer: In many cases, no one knows why some people develop leukemia and others do not. However, scientists have identified some risk factors for the disease. A risk factor is anything that increases a person's chances of developing a disease. Most people who have known risk factors do not get leukemia, while many who do get the disease have none of these risk factors. Risk Factors Studies have identified the following risk factors for leukemia. - older age  -  male  - white  - working with certain chemicals  -  smoking  - exposure to very high levels of radiation  - certain health conditions  -  past treatment with chemotherapy or radiation therapy.  older age male white working with certain chemicals smoking exposure to very high levels of radiation certain health conditions past treatment with chemotherapy or radiation therapy. More than 65 percent of people diagnosed with leukemia are over 55. Disorders and Genetic Diseases Certain disorders and genetic diseases, such as Down syndrome, may increase the risk of leukemia. About 3 out of 10 people with a blood disorder known as myelodysplastic syndrome develop acute myeloid leukemia. In this disorder, as in leukemia, abnormal cells are formed in the bone marrow and too few healthy blood cells enter the bloodstream. Radiation Exposure People exposed to very high levels of radiation, such as the atomic bomb blast in Hiroshima, Japan or nuclear power plant accidents, also are at risk of developing leukemia. Studies of atomic blasts have estimated that survivors have a five and a half times greater risk of developing leukemia than the general public. Cancer Treatments Chemotherapy and radiation therapy have been helpful to a lot of people in the treatment of many forms of cancer, and indeed are often lifesaving. However, these therapies have been linked to the development of second cancers, including leukemia, many years after treatment, particularly in people who received intensive therapy early in their lives. Chemotherapy for a first cancer is a stronger risk factor for developing leukemia later than is radiation therapy. The combination of chemotherapy and radiation can significantly increase the risk of leukemia after a first cancer. Powerful cancer-fighting chemotherapy drugs, known as alkylating agents and epipodophyllotoxins, have been associated with leukemia. The dose given and length of treatment as well as other factors may contribute to a person's risk of developing leukemia. Acute myeloid leukemia is the most common type of cancer that has been linked to chemotherapy treatment. Radiation therapy may increase a person's chance of developing leukemia. Several factors influence this risk, such as the dose of radiation administered. A person's age at the time of therapy does not seem to be a risk factor for leukemia. Recently, researchers have gained a much greater understanding of the risk of second cancers due to earlier treatment exposures. They have been able to limit the effective doses given in primary cases so as to reduce the risk of a recurrence or second cancer.

Question: Who is at risk for Leukemia? ?
Answer: For the most part, no one knows why some people develop leukemia and others do not. Most people who have known risk factors do not get leukemia, while many who get the disease do not have any risk factors. Studies have identified the following risk factors for leukemia. - older age  -  male  - white  - working with certain chemicals  -  smoking  - exposure to very high levels of radiation  - certain health conditions  -  past treatment with chemotherapy or radiation therapy.  older age male white working with certain chemicals smoking exposure to very high levels of radiation certain health conditions past treatment with chemotherapy or radiation therapy.

Question: Who is at risk for Parkinson's Disease? ?
Answer: About 60,000 Americans are diagnosed with Parkinson's disease each year. The disease strikes about 50 percent more men than women. The average age of onset is 60 years, and the risk of developing the disease increases with age. Parkinson's disease is also more common in developed countries, possibly because of increased exposure to pesticides or other environmental toxins.

Question: Who is at risk for Skin Cancer? ?
Answer: Skin cancer is caused by DNA damage, which can result from excess exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light. Having a previous occurrence of skin cancer or a close family member with the disease also puts you at risk for skin cancer. Other risk factors include having - a weak immune system  - unusual moles or a large number of moles  - white or light (fair)-colored skin, especially with freckles  - blond or red hair or blue or green eyes  - scars or burns on the skin, or skin diseases that make someone sensitive to the sun. a weak immune system unusual moles or a large number of moles white or light (fair)-colored skin, especially with freckles blond or red hair or blue or green eyes scars or burns on the skin, or skin diseases that make someone sensitive to the sun. In 2008 the National Cancer Institute developed a Melanoma Risk Tool which can help patients and their doctors determine their risk. The tool can be found at  http://www.cancer.gov/melanomarisktool/.

Question: Who is at risk for Skin Cancer? ?
Answer: The best way to reduce your skin cancer risk is to reduce your exposure to ultraviolet (UV) rays from the sun. To do this, you can avoid outdoor activities during midday, when the sun's rays are strongest, or wear protective clothing, such as a wide-brimmed hat, long-sleeved shirt, and pants. (Watch the video to learn more about how to protect your skin. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.) Darker-colored clothing is more protective against the sun. A white t-shirt, for example, provides little resistance to ultraviolet (UV) rays, particularly if it gets wet. In addition, wearing sunglasses that wrap around the face or have large frames is a good way to shield the delicate skin around the eyes. When going outside, you should always wear sunscreen and lipscreen. Your sunscreen should have an SPF of at least 15. UV radiation can also come from sunlamps, tanning beds, or tanning booths. UV radiation is present even in cold weather or on a cloudy day. A person's risk of cancer is related to lifetime exposure to UV radiation.

Question: Who is at risk for Gum (Periodontal) Disease? ?
Answer: There are a number of risk factors that can increase your chances of developing periodontal disease. - Smoking is one of the most significant risk factors associated with the development of gum disease and can even lower the chances for successful treatment.  - Hormonal changes in women can make gums more sensitive and make it easier for gingivitis to develop.   - Diabetes puts people at higher risk for developing infections, including gum disease.   - Diseases like cancer or AIDS and their treatments can also affect the health of gums.   - There are hundreds of prescription and over-the-counter medications that can reduce the flow of saliva, which has a protective effect on the mouth. Without enough saliva, the mouth is vulnerable to infections such as gum disease. And some medicines can cause abnormal overgrowth of the gum tissue; this can make it difficult to keep teeth and gums clean.   - Some people are more prone to severe gum disease because of their genetic makeup.  Smoking is one of the most significant risk factors associated with the development of gum disease and can even lower the chances for successful treatment. Hormonal changes in women can make gums more sensitive and make it easier for gingivitis to develop. Diabetes puts people at higher risk for developing infections, including gum disease. Diseases like cancer or AIDS and their treatments can also affect the health of gums. There are hundreds of prescription and over-the-counter medications that can reduce the flow of saliva, which has a protective effect on the mouth. Without enough saliva, the mouth is vulnerable to infections such as gum disease. And some medicines can cause abnormal overgrowth of the gum tissue; this can make it difficult to keep teeth and gums clean. Some people are more prone to severe gum disease because of their genetic makeup.

Question: Who is at risk for Anxiety Disorders? ?
Answer: Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) affects about 6.8 million American adults, including twice as many women as men. The disorder develops gradually and can begin at any point in the life cycle, although the years of highest risk are between childhood and middle age. The average age of onset is 31 years old. Social phobia affects about 15 million American adults. Women and men are equally likely to develop the disorder, which usually begins in childhood or early adolescence. There is some evidence that genetic factors are involved.  Panic disorder  affects about 6 million American adults and is twice as common in women as men. Panic attacks often begin in late adolescence or early adulthood, but not everyone who experiences panic attacks will develop panic disorder. Many people have just one attack and never have another. The tendency to develop panic attacks appears to be inherited.

Question: Who is at risk for Restless Legs Syndrome? ?
Answer: Restless legs syndrome (RLS) affects about 515 percent of Americans. Many people who have RLS have family members with the disorder.
                
RLS can affect people of any racial or ethnic group, but the disorder is more common in people of Northern European descent. RLS affects both genders, but women are more likely to have it than men.
                
The number of cases of RLS rises with age. Many people who have RLS are diagnosed in middle age. People who develop RLS early in life tend to have a family history of the disorder.
                
People who have certain diseases or conditions or who take certain medicines are more likely to develop RLS. (For more information, go to "What Causes Restless Legs Syndrome?")
                
For example, pregnancy is a risk factor for RLS. It usually occurs during the last 3 months of pregnancy. The disorder usually improves or goes away after giving birth. Some women may continue to have symptoms after giving birth. Other women may develop RLS again later in life.

Question: Who is at risk for Respiratory Distress Syndrome? ?
Answer: Certain factors may increase the risk that your infant will have respiratory distress syndrome (RDS). These factors include:
                
Premature delivery. The earlier your baby is born, the greater his or her risk for RDS. Most cases of RDS occur in babies born before 28 weeks of pregnancy.
                
Stress during your baby's delivery, especially if you lose a lot of blood.
                
Infection.
                
Your having diabetes.
                
Your baby also is at greater risk for RDS if you require an emergency cesarean delivery (C-section) before your baby is full term. You may need an emergency C-section because of a condition, such as a detached placenta, that puts you or your infant at risk.
                
Planned C-sections that occur before a baby's lungs have fully matured also can increase the risk of RDS. Your doctor can do tests before delivery that show whether it's likely that your baby's lungs are fully developed. These tests assess the age of the fetus or lung maturity.

Question: Who is at risk for Smoking and Your Heart? ?
Answer: The chemicals in tobacco smoke harm your heart and blood vessels in many ways. For example, they:
                
Contribute to inflammation, which may trigger plaque buildup in your arteries.
                
Damage blood vessel walls, making them stiff and less elastic (stretchy). This damage narrows the blood vessels and contributes to the damage caused by unhealthy cholesterol levels.
                
Disturb normal heart rhythms.
                
Increase your blood pressure and heart rate, making your heart work harder thannormal.
                
Lower your HDL (good) cholesterol and raise your LDL (bad) cholesterol. Smoking also increases your triglyceride level. Triglycerides are a type of fat found in theblood.
                
Thicken your blood and make it harder for your blood to carry oxygen.
                
Smoking and Heart Disease Risk
                
Smoking is a major risk factor for coronary heart disease, a condition in which plaque builds up inside the coronary arteries. These arteries supply your heart muscle with oxygen-rich blood.
                
When plaque builds up in the arteries, the condition is called atherosclerosis.
                
Plaque narrows the arteries and reduces blood flow to your heart muscle. The buildup of plaque also makes it more likely that blood clots will form in your arteries. Blood clots can partially or completely block blood flow.
                
Over time, smoking contributes to atherosclerosis and increases your risk of having and dying from heart disease, heart failure, or a heartattack.
                
Compared with nonsmokers, people who smoke are more likely to have heart disease and suffer from a heart attack. The risk of having or dying from a heart attack is even higher among people who smoke and already have heart disease.
                
For some people, such as women who use birth control pills and people who have diabetes, smoking poses an even greater risk to the heart and blood vessels.
                
Smoking is a major risk factor for heart disease. When combined with other risk factorssuch as unhealthy blood cholesterol levels, high blood pressure, and overweight or obesitysmoking further raises the risk of heart disease.
                
Smoking and the Risk of Peripheral Artery Disease
                
Peripheral artery disease (P.A.D.) is a disease in which plaque builds up in the arteries that carry blood to your head, organs, and limbs. Smoking is a major risk factor for P.A.D.
                
P.A.D. usually affects the arteries that carry blood to your legs. Blocked blood flow in the leg arteries can cause cramping, pain, weakness, and numbness in your hips, thighs, and calf muscles.
                
Blocked blood flow also can raise your risk of getting an infection in the affected limb. Your body might have a hard time fighting the infection.
                
If severe enough, blocked blood flow can cause gangrene (tissue death). In very serious cases, this can lead to leg amputation.
                
If you have P.A.D., your risk of heart disease and heart attack is higher than the risk for people who dont have P.A.D.
                
Smoking even one or two cigarettes a day can interfere with P.A.D. treatments. People who smoke and people who have diabetes are at highest risk for P.A.D. complications, including gangrene in the leg from decreased blood flow.
                
Secondhand Smoke Risks
                
Secondhand smoke is the smoke that comes from the burning end of a cigarette, cigar, or pipe. Secondhand smoke also refers to smoke thats breathed out by a person who is smoking.
                
Secondhand smoke contains many of the same harmful chemicals that people inhale when they smoke. It can damage the heart and blood vessels of people who dont smoke in the same way that active smoking harms people who do smoke. Secondhand smoke greatly increases adults risk of heart attack and death.
                
Secondhand smoke also raises the risk of future coronary heart disease in children and teens because it:
                
Damages heart tissues
                
Lowers HDL cholesterol
                
Raises blood pressure
                
The risks of secondhand smoke are especially high for premature babies who have respiratory distress syndrome and children who have conditions such asasthma.
                
Cigar and Pipe Smoke Risks
                
Researchers know less about how cigar and pipe smoke affects the heart and blood vessels than they do about cigarette smoke.
                
However, the smoke from cigars and pipes contains the same harmful chemicals as the smoke from cigarettes. Also, studies have shown that people who smoke cigars are at increased risk of heart disease.

Question: Who is at risk for Sudden Cardiac Arrest? ?
Answer: The risk of sudden cardiac arrest (SCA) increases:
                
With age
                
If you are a man. Men are more likely than women to have SCA.
                
Some studies show that blacksparticularly those with underlying conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure, heart failure, and chronic kidney disease or certain cardiac findings on tests such as an electrocardiogramhave a higher risk forSCA.
                
Major Risk Factor
                
The major risk factor for SCA is coronary heart disease. Most people who have SCA have some degree of coronary heart disease; however, many people may not know that they have coronary heart disease until SCA occurs. Usually their coronary heart disease is silentthat is, it has no signs or symptoms. Because of this, doctors and nurses have not detected it.
                
Many people who have SCA also have silent, or undiagnosed, heart attacks before sudden cardiac arrest happens. These people have no clear signs of heart attack, and they dont even realize that theyve had one. Read more about coronary heart disease risk factors.
                
Other Risk Factors
                
Other risk factors for SCA include:
                
A personal history of arrhythmias
                
A personal or family history of SCA or inherited disorders that make you prone toarrhythmias
                
Drug or alcohol abuse
                
Heart attack
                
Heart failure

Question: Who is at risk for Bronchitis? ?
Answer: Bronchitis is a very common condition. Millions of cases occur every year.
                
Elderly people, infants, and young children are at higher risk for acute bronchitis than people in other age groups.
                
People of all ages can develop chronic bronchitis, but it occurs more often in people who are older than 45. Also, many adults who develop chronic bronchitis are smokers. Women are more than twice as likely as men to be diagnosed with chronic bronchitis.
                
Smoking and having an existing lung disease greatly increase your risk for bronchitis. Contact with dust, chemical fumes, and vapors from certain jobs also increases your risk for the condition. Examples include jobs in coal mining, textile manufacturing, grain handling, and livestock farming.
                
Air pollution, infections, and allergies can worsen the symptoms of chronic bronchitis, especially if you smoke.

Question: Who is at risk for Overweight and Obesity? ?
Answer: Being overweight or obese isn't a cosmetic problem. These conditions greatly raise your risk for other health problems.
                
Overweight and Obesity-Related Health Problems in Adults
                
Coronary Heart Disease
                
As your body mass index rises, so does your risk for coronary heart disease (CHD). CHD is a condition in which a waxy substance called plaque (plak) builds up inside the coronary arteries. These arteries supply oxygen-rich blood to your heart.
                
Plaque can narrow or block the coronary arteries and reduce blood flow to the heart muscle. This can cause angina (an-JI-nuh or AN-juh-nuh) or a heart attack. (Angina is chest pain or discomfort.)
                
Obesity also can lead to heart failure. This is a serious condition in which your heart can't pump enough blood to meet your body's needs.
                
High Blood Pressure
                
Blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against the walls of the arteries as theheart pumps blood. If this pressure rises and stays high over time, it can damage the body in many ways.
                
Your chances of having high blood pressure are greater if you're overweight or obese.
                
Stroke
                
Being overweight or obese can lead to a buildup of plaque in your arteries. Eventually, an area of plaque can rupture, causing a blood clot to form.
                
If the clot is close to your brain, it can block the flow of blood and oxygen to your brain and cause a stroke. The risk of having a stroke rises as BMI increases.
                
Type 2 Diabetes
                
Diabetes is a disease in which the body's blood glucose, or blood sugar, level is too high. Normally, the body breaks down food into glucose and then carries it to cells throughout the body. The cells use a hormone called insulin to turn the glucose into energy.
                
In type 2 diabetes, the body's cells don't use insulin properly. At first, the body reacts by making more insulin. Over time, however, the body can't make enough insulin to control its blood sugar level.
                
Diabetes is a leading cause of early death, CHD, stroke, kidney disease, and blindness. Most people who have type 2 diabetes are overweight.
                
Abnormal Blood Fats
                
If you're overweight or obese, you're at increased risk of having abnormal levels of blood fats. These include high levels of triglycerides and LDL ("bad") cholesterol and low levels of HDL ("good") cholesterol.
                
Abnormal levels of these blood fats are a risk factor for CHD. For more information about triglycerides and LDL and HDL cholesterol, go to the Health Topics High Blood Cholesterol article.
                
Metabolic Syndrome
                
Metabolic syndrome is the name for a group of risk factors that raises your risk for heart disease and other health problems, such as diabetes and stroke.
                
You can develop any one of these risk factors by itself, but they tend to occur together. A diagnosis of metabolic syndrome is made if you have at least three of the following risk factors:
                
A large waistline. This is called abdominal obesity or "having an apple shape." Having extra fat in the waist area is a greater risk factor for CHD than having extra fat in other parts of the body, such as on the hips.
                
A higher than normal triglyceride level (or you're on medicine to treat high triglycerides).
                
A lower than normal HDL cholesterol level (or you're on medicine to treat low HDL cholesterol).
                
Higher than normal blood pressure (or you're on medicine to treat high blood pressure).
                
Higher than normal fasting blood sugar (or you're on medicine to treat diabetes).
                
Cancer
                
Being overweight or obese raises your risk for colon, breast, endometrial, and gallbladder cancers.
                
Osteoarthritis
                
Osteoarthritis is a common joint problem of the knees, hips, and lower back. The condition occurs if the tissue that protects the joints wears away. Extra weight can put more pressure and wear on joints, causing pain.
                
Sleep Apnea
                
Sleep apnea is a common disorder in which you have one or more pauses in breathing or shallow breaths while you sleep.
                
A person who has sleep apnea may have more fat stored around the neck. This can narrow the airway, making it hard to breathe.
                
Obesity Hypoventilation Syndrome
                
Obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS) is a breathing disorder that affects some obese people. In OHS, poor breathing results in too much carbon dioxide (hypoventilation) and too little oxygen in the blood (hypoxemia).
                
OHS can lead to serious health problems and may even cause death.
                
Reproductive Problems
                
Obesity can cause menstrual issues and infertility in women.
                
Gallstones
                
Gallstones are hard pieces of stone-like material that form in the gallbladder. They're mostly made of cholesterol. Gallstones can cause stomach or back pain.
                
People who are overweight or obese are at increased risk of having gallstones. Also, being overweight may result in an enlarged gallbladder that doesn't work well.
                
Overweight and Obesity-Related Health Problems in Children and Teens
                
Overweight and obesity also increase the health risks for children and teens. Type2 diabetes once was rare in American children, but an increasing number of children are developing the disease.
                
Also, overweight children are more likely to become overweight or obese as adults, with the same disease risks.

Question: Who is at risk for Overweight and Obesity? ?
Answer: Overweight and obesity affect Americans of all ages, sexes, and racial/ethnic groups. This serious health problem has been growing over the last 30 years.
                
Adults
                
According to the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 20092010, almost 70 percent of Americans are overweight or obese. The survey also shows differences in overweight and obesity among racial/ethnic groups.
                
In women, overweight and obesity are highest among non-Hispanic Black women (about 82percent), compared with about 76 percent for Hispanic women and 64 percent for non-Hispanic White women.
                
In men, overweight and obesity are highest among Hispanic men (about 82percent), compared with about 74 percent for non-Hispanic White men and about 70 percent for non-Hispanic Black men.
                
Children and Teens
                
Children also have become heavier. In the past 30 years, obesity has tripled among school-aged children and teens.
                
According to NHANES 20092010, about 1 in 6 American children ages 219 are obese. The survey also suggests that overweight and obesity are having a greater effect on minority groups, including Blacks and Hispanics.

Question: Who is at risk for Cardiogenic Shock? ?
Answer: The most common risk factor for cardiogenic shock is having a heart attack. If you've had a heart attack, the following factors can further increase your risk for cardiogenic shock:
                
Older age
                
A history of heart attacks or heart failure
                
Coronary heart disease that affects all of the hearts major blood vessels
                
High blood pressure
                
Diabetes
                
Women who have heart attacks are at higher risk for cardiogenic shock than men who have heart attacks.

Question: Who is at risk for Heart Disease in Women? ?
Answer: Certain traits, conditions, or habits may raise your risk forcoronary heart disease(CHD). These conditions are known as risk factors. Risk factors also increase the chance that existing CHD will worsen.
                
Women generally have the same CHD risk factors as men. However, some risk factors may affect women differently than men. For example, diabetes raises the risk of CHD more in women. Also, some risk factors, such as birth control pills and menopause, only affect women.
                
There are many known CHD risk factors. Your risk for CHD andheart attackrises with the number of risk factors you have and their severity. Risk factors tend to "gang up" and worsen each other's effects.
                
Having just one risk factor doubles your risk for CHD. Having two risk factors increases your risk for CHD fourfold. Having three or more risk factors increases your risk for CHD more than tenfold.
                
Also, some risk factors, such as smoking and diabetes, put you at greater risk for CHD and heart attack than others.
                
More than 75 percent of women aged 40 to 60 have one or more risk factors for CHD. Many risk factors start during childhood; some even develop within the first 10 years of life. You can control most risk factors, but some you can't.
                
For more information about CHD risk factors, go to the Health Topics Coronary Heart Disease Risk Factorsarticle. To find out whether you're at risk for CHD, talk with your doctor or health care provider.
                
Risk Factors You Can Control
                
Smoking
                
Smoking is the most powerful risk factor that women can control. Smoking tobacco or long-term exposure to secondhand smoke raises your risk for CHD and heart attack.
                
Smoking exposes you to carbon monoxide. This chemical robs your blood of oxygen and triggers a buildup of plaque in your arteries.
                
Smoking also increases the risk of blood clots forming in your arteries. Blood clots can block plaque-narrowed arteries and cause a heart attack. The more you smoke, the greater your risk for a heart attack.
                
Even women who smoke fewer than two cigarettes a day are at increased risk for CHD.
                
High Blood Cholesterol and High Triglyceride Levels
                
Cholesterol travels in the bloodstream in small packages called lipoproteins (LI-po-pro-teens). The two major kinds of lipoproteins are low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol.
                
LDL cholesterol is sometimes called "bad" cholesterol. This is because it carries cholesterol to tissues, including your heart arteries. HDL cholesterol is sometimes called "good" cholesterol. This is because it helps remove cholesterol from your arteries.
                
A blood test called a lipoprotein panel is used to measure cholesterol levels. This test gives information about your total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, and triglycerides (a type of fat found in the blood).
                
Cholesterol levels are measured in milligrams (mg) of cholesterol per deciliter (dL) of blood. A woman's risk for CHD increases if she has a total cholesterol level greater than 200 mg/dL, an LDL cholesterol level greater than 100 mg/dL, or an HDL cholesterol level less than 50 mg/dL.
                
A triglyceride level greater than 150 mg/dL also increases a woman's risk for CHD. A woman's HDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels predict her risk for CHD better than her total cholesterol or LDL cholesterol levels.
                
High Blood Pressure
                
Blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against the walls of the arteries as the heart pumps blood. If this pressure rises and stays high over time, it can damage the body in many ways.
                
Women who have blood pressure greater than 120/80 mmHg are at increased risk for CHD. (The mmHg is millimeters of mercurythe units used to measure blood pressure.)
                
High blood pressure is defined differently for people who have diabetes or chronic kidney disease. If you have one of these diseases, work with your doctor to set a healthy blood pressure goal.
                
Diabetes and Prediabetes
                
Diabetes is a disease in which the body's blood sugar level is too high. This is because the body doesn't make enough insulin or doesn't use its insulin properly.
                
Insulin is a hormone that helps move blood sugar into cells, where it's used for energy. Over time, a high blood sugar level can lead to increased plaque buildup in your arteries.
                
Prediabetes is a condition in which your blood sugar level is higher than normal, but not as high as it is in diabetes. Prediabetes puts you at higher risk for both diabetes and CHD.
                
Diabetes and prediabetes raise the risk of CHD more in women than in men. In fact, having diabetes doubles a woman's risk of developing CHD.
                
Before menopause, estrogen provides women some protection against CHD. However, in women who have diabetes, the disease counters the protective effects of estrogen.
                
Overweight and Obesity
                
The terms "overweight" and "obesity" refer to body weight that's greater than what is considered healthy for a certain height.
                
The most useful measure of overweight and obesity is body mass index (BMI). BMI is calculated from your height and weight. In adults, a BMI of 18.5 to 24.9 is considered normal. A BMI of 25 to 29.9 is considered overweight. A BMI of 30 or more is considered obese.
                
You can use the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's (NHLBI's) online BMI calculator to figure out your BMI, or your doctor can help you.
                
Studies suggest that where extra weight occurs on the body may predict CHD risk better than BMI. Women who carry much of their fat around the waist are at greatest risk for CHD. These women have "apple-shaped" figures.
                
Women who carry most of their fat on their hips and thighsthat is, those who have "pear-shaped" figuresare at lower risk for CHD.
                
To fully know how excess weight affects your CHD risk, you should know your BMI and waist measurement. If you have a BMI greater than 24.9 and a waist measurement greater than 35 inches, you're at increased risk for CHD.
                
If your waist measurement divided by your hip measurement is greater than 0.9, you're also at increased risk for CHD.
                
Studies also suggest that women whose weight goes up and down dramatically (typically due to unhealthy dieting) are at increased risk for CHD. These swings in weight can lower HDL cholesterol levels.
                
Metabolic Syndrome
                
Metabolic syndromeis the name for a group of risk factors that raises your risk for CHD and other health problems, such as diabetes and stroke. A diagnosis of metabolic syndrome is made if you have at least three of the following risk factors:
                
A large waistline. Having extra fat in the waist area is a greater risk factor for CHD than having extra fat in other parts of the body, such as on the hips.
                
A higher than normal triglyceride level (or you're on medicine to treat high triglycerides).
                
A lower than normal HDL cholesterol level (or you're on medicine to treat low HDL cholesterol).
                
Higher than normal blood pressure (or you're on medicine to treat high blood pressure).
                
Higher than normal fasting blood sugar (or you're on medicine to treat diabetes)
                
Metabolic syndrome is more common in African American women and Mexican American women than in men of the same racial groups. The condition affects White women and men about equally.
                
Birth Control Pills
                
Women who smoke and take birth control pills are at very high risk for CHD, especially if they're older than 35. For women who take birth control pills but don't smoke, the risk of CHD isn't fully known.
                
Lack of Physical Activity
                
Inactive people are nearly twice as likely to develop CHD as those who are physically active. A lack of physical activity can worsen other CHD risk factors, such as high blood cholesterol and triglyceride levels, high blood pressure, diabetes and prediabetes, and overweight and obesity.
                
Unhealthy Diet
                
An unhealthy diet can raise your risk for CHD. For example, foods that are high in saturated and trans fats and cholesterol raise your LDL cholesterol level. A high-sodium (salt) diet can raise your risk for high blood pressure.
                
Foods with added sugars will give you extra calories without nutrients, such as vitamins and minerals. This can cause you to gain weight, which raises your risk for CHD.
                
Too much alcohol also can cause you to gain weight, and it will raise your blood pressure.
                
Stress or Depression
                
Stress may play a role in causing CHD. Stress can trigger your arteries to narrow. This can raise your blood pressure and your risk for a heart attack.
                
Getting upset or angry also can trigger a heart attack. Stress also may indirectly raise your risk for CHD if it makes you more likely to smoke or overeat foods high in fat and sugar.
                
People who are depressed are two to three times more likely to develop CHD than people who are not. Depression is twice as common in women as in men.
                
Anemia
                
Anemia (uh-NEE-me-eh) is a condition in which your blood has a lower than normal number of red blood cells.
                
The condition also can occur if your red blood cells don't contain enough hemoglobin (HEE-muh-glow-bin). Hemoglobin is an iron-rich protein that carries oxygen from your lungs to the rest of your organs.
                
If you have anemia, your organs don't get enough oxygen-rich blood. This causes your heart to work harder, which may raise your risk for CHD.
                
Anemia has many causes. For more information, go to the Health Topics Anemiaarticle.
                
Sleep Apnea
                
Sleep apneais a common disorder that causes pauses in breathing or shallow breaths while you sleep. Breathing pauses can last from a few seconds to minutes. They often occur 5 to 30 times or more an hour.
                
Typically, normal breathing starts again after the pause, sometimes with a loud snort or choking sound. Major signs of sleep apnea are snoring and daytime sleepiness.
                
When you stop breathing, the lack of oxygen triggers your body's stress hormones. This causes blood pressure to rise and makes the blood more likely to clot.
                
Untreated sleep apnea can raise your risk for high blood pressure, diabetes, and even a heart attack or stroke.
                
Women are more likely to develop sleep apnea after menopause.
                
Risk Factors You Can't Control
                
Age and Menopause
                
As you get older, your risk for CHD and heart attack rises. This is due in part to the slow buildup of plaque inside your heart arteries, which can start during childhood.
                
Before age 55, women have a lower risk for CHD than men. Estrogen provides women with some protection against CHD before menopause. After age 55, however, the risk of CHD increases in both women and men.
                
You may have gone through early menopause, either naturally or because you had your ovaries removed. If so, you're twice as likely to develop CHD as women of the same age who aren't yet menopausal.
                
Another reason why women are at increased risk for CHD after age 55 is that middle age is when you tend to develop other CHD risk factors.
                
Women who have gone through menopause also are at increased risk for broken heart syndrome. (For more information, go to the section on emerging risk factors below.)
                
Family History
                
Family history plays a role in CHD risk. Your risk increases if your father or a brother was diagnosed with CHD before 55 years of age, or if your mother or a sister was diagnosed with CHD before 65 years of age.
                
Also, a family history of strokeespecially a mother's stroke historycan help predict the risk of heart attack in women.
                
Having a family history of CHD or stroke doesn't mean that you'll develop heart disease. This is especially true if your affected family member smoked or had other risk factors that were not well treated.
                
Making lifestyle changes and taking medicines to treat risk factors often can lessen genetic influences and prevent or delay heart problems.
                
Preeclampsia
                
Preeclampsia (pre-e-KLAMP-se-ah) is a condition that develops during pregnancy. The two main signs of preeclampsia are a rise in blood pressure and excess protein in the urine.
                
These signs usually occur during the second half of pregnancy and go away after delivery. However, your risk of developing high blood pressure later in life increases after having preeclampsia.
                
Preeclampsia also is linked to an increased lifetime risk of heart disease, including CHD, heart attack, and heart failure. (Likewise, having heart disease risk factors, such as diabetes or obesity, increases your risk for preeclampsia.)
                
If you had preeclampsia during pregnancy, you're twice as likely to develop heart disease as women who haven't had the condition. You're also more likely to develop heart disease earlier in life.
                
Preeclampsia is a heart disease risk factor that you can't control. However, if you've had the condition, you should take extra care to try and control other heart disease risk factors.
                
The more severe your preeclampsia was, the greater your risk for heart disease. Let your doctor know that you had preeclampsia so he or she can assess your heart disease risk and how to reduce it.
                
Emerging Risk Factors
                
Research suggests that inflammation plays a role in causing CHD. Inflammation is the body's response to injury or infection. Damage to the arteries' inner walls seems to trigger inflammation and help plaque grow.
                
High blood levels of a protein called C-reactive protein (CRP) are a sign of inflammation in the body. Research suggests that women who have high blood levels of CRP are at increased risk for heart attack.
                
Also, some inflammatory diseases, such as lupus and rheumatoid arthritis, may increase the risk for CHD.
                
Some studies suggest that women who have migraine headaches may be at greater risk for CHD. This is especially true for women who have migraines with auras (visual disturbances), such as flashes of light or zig-zag lines.
                
Low bone density and low intake of folate and vitamin B6 also may raise a woman's risk for CHD.
                
More research is needed to find out whether calcium supplements with or without vitamin D affect CHD risk. You may want to talk with your doctor to find out whether these types of supplements are right for you.
                
Researchers are just starting to learn about broken heart syndrome risk factors. Most women who have this disorder are White and have gone through menopause.
                
Many of these women have other heart disease risk factors, such as high blood pressure, high blood cholesterol, diabetes, and smoking. However, these risk factors tend to be less common in women who have broken heart syndrome than in women who have CHD.

Question: Who is at risk for Anemia? ?
Answer: Anemia is a common condition. It occurs in all age, racial, and ethnic groups. Both men and women can have anemia. However, women of childbearing age are at higher risk for the condition because of blood loss from menstruation.
                
Anemia can develop during pregnancy due to low levels of iron and folic acid (folate) and changes in the blood. During the first 6 months of pregnancy, the fluid portion of a woman's blood (the plasma) increases faster than the number of red blood cells. This dilutes the blood and can lead to anemia.
                
During the first year of life, some babies are at risk for anemia because of iron deficiency. At-risk infants include those who are born too early and infants who are fed breast milk only or formula that isn't fortified with iron. These infants can develop iron deficiency by 6 months of age.
                
Infants between 1 and 2 years of age also are at risk for anemia. They may not get enough iron in their diets, especially if they drink a lot of cow's milk. Cow's milk is low in the iron needed for growth.
                
Drinking too much cow's milk may keep an infant or toddler from eating enough iron-rich foods or absorbing enough iron from foods.
                
Older adults also are at increased risk for anemia. Researchers continue to study how the condition affects older adults. Many of these people have other medical conditions as well.
                
Major Risk Factors
                
Factors that raise your risk for anemia include:
                
A diet that is low in iron, vitamins, or minerals
                
Blood loss from surgery or an injury
                
Long-term or serious illnesses, such as kidney disease, cancer, diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, HIV/AIDS, inflammatory bowel disease (including Crohn's disease), liver disease, heart failure, and thyroid disease
                
Long-term infections
                
A family history of inherited anemia, such as sickle cell anemia or thalassemia

Question: Who is at risk for Asbestos-Related Lung Diseases? ?
Answer: Until the late 1970s, asbestos was widely used in many industries in the United States. During that time, workplace rules to ensure workers' safety around asbestos weren't required by law.
                
Asbestos was used in or with many products. Examples include steam pipes, boilers, furnaces, and furnace ducts; wallboard; floor and ceiling tiles; wood-burning stoves and gas fireplaces; car brakes, clutches, and gaskets; railroad engines; roofing and shingles; and wall-patching materials and paints.
                
Asbestos also was used in many other products, such as fireproof gloves, ironing board covers, cooking pot handles, and hairdryers.
                
Anyone employed for a prolonged period in mining, milling, making, or installing asbestos products before the late 1970s is at risk for asbestos-related lung diseases. Some examples of these workers include:
                
Miners
                
Aircraft and auto mechanics
                
Building construction workers
                
Electricians
                
Shipyard workers
                
Boiler operators
                
Building engineers
                
Railroad workers
                
In general, the risk is greatest for people who worked with asbestos and were exposed for at least several months to visible dust from asbestos fibers. The risk for asbestos-related lung diseases also depends on:
                
How much asbestos you were exposed to.
                
How long you were exposed to asbestos, and how often during that time you were in direct contact with it.
                
The size, shape, and chemical makeup of the asbestos fibers. Different types of asbestos fibers can affect the lungs differently. For example, chrysotile asbestos (a curly fiber) is less likely to cause mesothelioma than amphibole asbestos (a straight fiber).
                
Your personal risks, such as smoking or having an existing lung disease.
                
Family members of people exposed to asbestos on the job also may be at risk. Family members may have breathed in asbestos fibers that were brought home on workers clothes, shoes, and bodies.
                
People who live in areas that have large deposits of asbestos in the soil also are at risk for asbestos-related lung diseases. However, this risk is limited to areas where the deposits were disturbed and asbestos fibers got into the air.
                
Asbestos fibers also can be released into the air when older buildings containing asbestos-made products are destroyed. Removing the products, such as during a building renovation, also can release asbestos fibers into the air.
                
Generally, being around asbestos-made products isnt a danger, as long as the asbestos is enclosed. This prevents the fibers from getting into the air.
                
People in the United States are less likely to develop asbestos-related lung diseases today than in the past. This is because the mineral no longer is widely used. Also, where asbestos is still used, rules and standards are now in place to protect workers and others from asbestos exposure.

Question: Who is at risk for Rh Incompatibility? ?
Answer: An Rh-negative woman who conceives a child with an Rh-positive man is at risk for Rhincompatibility.
                
Rh factor is inherited (passed from parents to children through the genes). If you're Rh-negative and the father of your baby is Rh-positive, the baby has a 50 percent or more chance of having Rh-positive blood.
                
Simple blood tests can show whether you and the father of your baby are Rh-positive or Rh-negative.
                
If you're Rh-negative, your risk of problems from Rh incompatibility is higher if you were exposed to Rh-positive blood before the pregnancy. This may have happened during:
                
An earlier pregnancy (usually during delivery). You also may have been exposed to Rh-positive blood if you had bleeding or abdominal trauma (for example, from a car accident) during the pregnancy.
                
An ectopic pregnancy, a miscarriage, or an induced abortion. (An ectopic pregnancy is a pregnancy that starts outside of the uterus, or womb.)
                
A mismatched blood transfusion or blood and marrow stem cell transplant.
                
An injection or puncture with a needle or other object containing Rh-positive blood.
                
Certain tests also can expose you to Rh-positive blood. Examples include amniocentesis (AM-ne-o-sen-TE-sis) and chorionic villus (ko-re-ON-ik VIL-us) sampling (CVS).
                
Amniocentesis is a test that you may have during pregnancy. Your doctor uses a needle to remove a small amount of fluid from the sac around your baby. The fluid is then tested for various reasons.
                
CVS also may be done during pregnancy. For this test, your doctor threads a thin tube through the vagina and cervix to the placenta. He or she removes a tissue sample from the placenta using gentle suction. The tissue sample is tested for various reasons.
                
Unless you were treated with the medicine that prevents Rh antibodies (Rh immune globulin) after each of these events, you're at risk for Rh incompatibility during current and future pregnancies.

Question: Who is at risk for Insomnia? ?
Answer: Insomnia is a common disorder. It affects women more often than men. The disorder can occur at any age. However, older adults are more likely to have insomnia than younger people.
                
People who might be at increased risk for insomnia include those who:
                
Have a lot of stress.
                
Are depressed or have other emotional distress, such as divorce or death of a spouse.
                
Have lower incomes.
                
Work at night or have frequent major shifts in their work hours.
                
Travel long distances with time changes.
                
Have certain medical conditions or sleep disorders that can disrupt sleep. For more information, go to "What Causes Insomnia?"
                
Have an inactive lifestyle.
                
Young and middle-aged African Americans also might be at increased risk for insomnia. Research shows that, compared with Caucasian Americans, it takes African Americans longer to fall asleep. They also have lighter sleep, don't sleep as well, and take more naps. Sleep-related breathing problems also are more common among African Americans.

Question: Who is at risk for Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation? ?
Answer: Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) is the result of an underlying disease or condition. People who have one or more of the following conditions are most likely to develop DIC:
                
Sepsis (an infection in the bloodstream)
                
Surgery and trauma
                
Cancer
                
Serious complications of pregnancy and childbirth
                
People who are bitten by poisonous snakes (such as rattlesnakes and other vipers), or those who have frostbite or burns, also are at risk for DIC.

Question: Who is at risk for Coronary Heart Disease? ?
Answer: In the United States, coronary heart disease (CHD) is a leading cause of death for both men and women. Each year, about 370,000 Americans die from coronary heart disease.
                
Certain traits, conditions, or habits may raise your risk for CHD. The more risk factors you have, the more likely you are to develop the disease.
                
You can control many risk factors, which may help prevent or delay CHD.
                
Major Risk Factors
                
Unhealthy blood cholesterol levels. This includes high LDL cholesterol (sometimes called bad cholesterol) and low HDL cholesterol (sometimes called good cholesterol).
                
High blood pressure. Blood pressure is considered high if it stays at or above 140/90 mmHg over time. If you have diabetes or chronic kidney disease, high blood pressure is defined as 130/80 mmHg or higher. (The mmHg is millimeters of mercurythe units used to measure blood pressure.)
                
Smoking. Smoking can damage and tighten blood vessels, lead to unhealthy cholesterol levels, and raise blood pressure. Smoking also can limit how much oxygen reaches the body's tissues.
                
Insulin resistance. This condition occurs if the body can't use its own insulin properly. Insulin is a hormone that helps move blood sugar into cells where it's used for energy. Insulin resistance may lead to diabetes.
                
Diabetes. With this disease, the body's blood sugar level is too high because the body doesn't make enough insulin or doesn't use its insulin properly.
                
Overweight or obesity. The terms overweight and obesity refer to body weight thats greater than what is considered healthy for a certain height.
                
Metabolic syndrome. Metabolic syndrome is the name for a group of risk factors that raises your risk for CHD and other health problems, such as diabetes and stroke.
                
Lack of physical activity. Being physically inactive can worsen other risk factors for CHD, such as unhealthy blood cholesterol levels, high blood pressure, diabetes, and overweight or obesity.
                
Unhealthy diet. An unhealthy diet can raise your risk for CHD. Foods that are high in saturated and trans fats, cholesterol, sodium, and sugar can worsen other risk factors for CHD.
                
Older age. Genetic or lifestyle factors cause plaque to build up in your arteries as you age. In men, the risk for coronary heart disease increases starting at age 45. In women, the risk for coronary heart disease increases starting at age 55.
                
A family history of early coronary heart disease is a risk factor for developing coronary heart disease, specifically if a father or brother is diagnosed before age 55, or a mother or sister is diagnosed before age 65.
                
Although older age and a family history of early heart disease are risk factors, it doesn't mean that youll develop CHD if you have one or both. Controlling other risk factors often can lessen genetic influences and help prevent CHD, even in older adults.
                
Emerging Risk Factors
                
Researchers continue to study other possible risk factors for CHD.
                
High levels of a protein called C-reactive protein (CRP) in the blood may raise the risk of CHD and heart attack. High levels of CRP are a sign of inflammation in the body.
                
Inflammation is the body's response to injury or infection. Damage to the arteries' inner walls may trigger inflammation and help plaque grow.
                
Research is under way to find out whether reducing inflammation and lowering CRP levels also can reduce the risk of CHD and heart attack.
                
High levels of triglycerides in the blood also may raise the risk of CHD, especially in women. Triglycerides are a type of fat.
                
Other Risks Related to Coronary Heart Disease
                
Other conditions and factors also may contribute to CHD, including:
                
Sleep apnea. Sleep apnea is a common disorder in which you have one or more pauses in breathing or shallow breaths while you sleep. Untreated sleep apnea can increase your risk for high blood pressure, diabetes, and even a heart attack or stroke.
                
Stress. Research shows that the most commonly reported "trigger" for a heart attack is an emotionally upsetting event, especially one involving anger.
                
Alcohol. Heavy drinking can damage the heart muscle and worsen other CHD risk factors. Men should have no more than two drinks containing alcohol a day. Women should have no more than one drink containing alcohol a day.
                
Preeclampsia. This condition can occur during pregnancy. The two main signs of preeclampsia are a rise in blood pressure and excess protein in the urine. Preeclampsia is linked to an increased lifetime risk of heart disease, including CHD, heart attack, heart failure, and high blood pressure.
                
For more detailed information, go to the Health Topics Coronary Heart Disease Risk Factors article.

Question: Who is at risk for Vasculitis? ?
Answer: Vasculitis can affect people of all ages and races and both sexes. Some types of vasculitis seem to occur more often in people who:
                
Have certain medical conditions, such as chronic hepatitis B or C infection
                
Have certain autoimmune diseases, such a lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, and scleroderma
                
Smoke
                
For more information, go to "Types of Vasculitis."

Question: Who is at risk for Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency? ?
Answer: Alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) deficiency occurs in all ethnic groups. However, the condition occurs most often in White people of European descent.
                
AAT deficiency is an inherited condition. "Inherited" means the condition is passed from parents to children through genes.
                
If you have bloodline relatives with known AAT deficiency, you're at increased risk for the condition. Even so, it doesn't mean that you'll develop one of the diseases related to the condition.
                
Some risk factors make it more likely that you'll develop lung disease if you have AAT deficiency. Smoking is the leading risk factor for serious lung disease if you have AAT deficiency. Your risk for lung disease also may go up if you're exposed to dust, fumes, or other toxic substances.

Question: Who is at risk for Cystic Fibrosis? ?
Answer: Cystic fibrosis (CF) affects both males and females and people from all racial and ethnic groups. However, the disease is most common among Caucasians of Northern European descent.
                
CF also is common among Latinos and American Indians, especially the Pueblo and Zuni. The disease is less common among African Americans and Asian Americans.
                
More than 10 million Americans are carriers of a faulty CF gene. Many of them don't know that they're CF carriers.

Question: Who is at risk for Peripheral Artery Disease? ?
Answer: Peripheral artery disease (P.A.D.) affects millions of people in the United States. The disease is more common in blacks than any other racial or ethnic group.The major risk factors for P.A.D. are smoking, older age, and having certain diseases or conditions.
                
Smoking
                
Smoking is the main risk factor for P.A.D. and your risk increases if you smoke or have a history of smoking. Quitting smoking slows the progress of P.A.D. People who smoke and people who have diabetes are at highest risk for P.A.D. complications, such as gangrene (tissue death) in the leg from decreased blood flow.
                
Older Age
                
Older age also is a risk factor for P.A.D. Plaque builds up in your arteries as you age.Older age combined with other risk factors, such as smoking or diabetes, also puts you at higher risk for P.A.D.
                
Diseases and Conditions
                
Many diseases and conditions can raise your risk of P.A.D., including:
                
Diabetes
                
High blood pressure
                
High blood cholesterol
                
Coronary heart disease
                
Stroke
                
Metabolic syndrome

Question: Who is at risk for Sarcoidosis? ?
Answer: Sarcoidosis affects people of all ages and races. However, it's more common among African Americans and Northern Europeans. In the United States, the disease affects African Americans somewhat more often and more severely than Whites.
                
Studies have shown that sarcoidosis tends to vary amongst ethnic groups. For example, eye problems related to the disease are more common in Japanese people.
                
Lofgren's syndrome, a type of sarcoidosis, is more common in people of European descent. Lofgren's syndrome may involve fever, enlarged lymph nodes, arthritis (usually in the ankles), and/or erythema nodosum. Erythema nodosum is a rash of red or reddish-purple bumps on your ankles and shins. The rash may be warm and tender to the touch.
                
Sarcoidosis is somewhat more common in women than in men. The disease usually develops between the ages of 20 and 50. People who have a family history of sarcoidosis also are at higher risk for the disease.
                
Researchers have looked for a link between sarcoidosis and exposure to workplace and environmental factors. However, no clear link has been found.

Question: Who is at risk for Thrombocytopenia? ?
Answer: People who are at highest risk for thrombocytopenia are those affected by one of the conditions or factors discussed in "What Causes Thrombocytopenia?" This includes people who:
                
Have certain types of cancer, aplastic anemia, or autoimmune diseases
                
Are exposed to certain toxic chemicals
                
Have a reaction to certain medicines
                
Have certain viruses
                
Have certain genetic conditions
                
People at highest risk also include heavy alcohol drinkers and pregnant women.

Question: Who is at risk for Immune Thrombocytopenia? ?
Answer: Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is a fairly common blood disorder. Both children and adults can develop ITP.
                
Children usually have the acute (short-term) type of ITP. Acute ITP often develops after a viral infection.
                
Adults tend to have the chronic (long-lasting) type of ITP. Women are two to three times more likely than men to develop chronic ITP.
                
The number of cases of ITP is rising because routine blood tests that can detect a low platelet count are being done more often.
                
ITP can't be passed from one person to another.

Question: Who is at risk for Arrhythmia? ?
Answer: Arrhythmias are very common in older adults. Atrial fibrillation (a common type of arrhythmia that can cause problems) affects millions of people, and the number is rising.
                
Most serious arrhythmias affect people older than 60. This is because older adults are more likely to have heart disease and other health problems that can lead to arrhythmias.
                
Older adults also tend to be more sensitive to the side effects of medicines, some of which can cause arrhythmias. Some medicines used to treat arrhythmias can even cause arrhythmias as a side effect.
                
Some types of arrhythmia happen more often in children and young adults. Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT), including Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, is more common in young people. PSVT is a fast heart rate that begins and ends suddenly.
                
Major Risk Factors
                
Arrhythmias are more common in people who have diseases or conditions that weaken the heart, such as:
                
Heart attack
                
Heart failure or cardiomyopathy, which weakens the heart and changes the way electrical signals move through the heart
                
Heart tissue that's too thick or stiff or that hasn't formed normally
                
Leaking or narrowed heart valves, which make the heart work too hard and can lead to heart failure
                
Congenital heart defects (defects present at birth) that affect the heart's structure or function
                
Other conditions also can raise the risk for arrhythmias, such as:
                
High blood pressure
                
Infections that damage the heart muscle or the sac around the heart
                
Diabetes, which increases the risk of high blood pressure and coronary heart disease
                
Sleep apnea, which can stress the heart because the heart doesn't get enough oxygen
                
An overactive or underactive thyroid gland (too much or too little thyroid hormone in the body)
                
Several other risk factors also can raise your risk for arrhythmias. Examples include heart surgery, certain drugs (such as cocaine or amphetamines), or an imbalance of chemicals or other substances (such as potassium) in the bloodstream.

Question: Who is at risk for Childhood Interstitial Lung Disease? ?
Answer: Childhood interstitial lung disease (chILD) is rare. Most children are not at risk for chILD. However, some factors increase the risk of developing chILD. These risk factors include:
                
Having a family history of interstitial lung disease or chILD.
                
Having an inherited surfactant disorder or a family history of this type of disorder. Surfactant is a liquid that coats the inside of the lungs. It helps with breathing and may help protect the lungs from bacterial and viral infections.
                
Having problems with aspiration. This term "aspiration" refers to inhaling substancessuch as food, liquid, or vomitinto the lungs.
                
Having an immune system disorder. The immune system protects the body against bacteria, viruses, and toxins. Children who have immune system disorders aren't able to fight illness and disease as well as children who have healthy immune systems.
                
Being exposed to substances in the environment that can irritate the lungs, such as molds and chemicals.
                
Having a systemic or autoimmune disease, such as collagen vascular disease or inflammatory bowel disease. Systemic diseases are diseases that involve many of the body's organs. Autoimmune diseases occur if the body's immune system mistakenly attacks the body's tissues and cells.
                
Undergoing some cancer treatments, such as radiation and chemotherapy.
                
Having a bone marrow transplant or a lung transplant.
                
Certain types of chILD are more common in infants and young children, while others can occur in children of any age. For more information, go to "Types of Childhood Interstitial Lung Disease."
                
The risk of death seems to be higher for children who have chILD and pulmonary hypertension, developmental or growth disorders, bone marrow transplants, or certain surfactant problems.

Question: Who is at risk for Hypotension? ?
Answer: Hypotension can affect people of all ages. However, people in certain age groups are more likely to have certain types of hypotension.
                
Older adults are more likely to have orthostatic and postprandial hypotension. Children and young adults are more likely to have neurally mediated hypotension.
                
People who take certain medicinessuch as diuretics ("water pills") or other high blood pressure medicinesare at increased risk for hypotension. Certain conditions also increase the risk for hypotension. Examples include central nervous system disorders (such as Parkinson's disease) and some heart conditions.
                
Other risk factors for hypotension include being immobile (not being able to move around very much) for long periods, being out in the heat for a long time, and pregnancy. Hypotension during pregnancy is normal and usually goes away after birth.

Question: Who is at risk for Carotid Artery Disease? ?
Answer: The major risk factors for carotid artery disease, listed below, also are the major risk factors for coronary heart disease (also called coronary artery disease) and peripheral artery disease.
                
Diabetes. With this disease, the bodys blood sugar level is too high because the body doesnt make enough insulin or doesnt use its insulin properly. People who have diabetes are four times more likely to have carotid artery disease than are people who dont have diabetes.
                
Family history of atherosclerosis. People who have a family history of atherosclerosis are more likely to develop carotid artery disease.
                
High blood pressure (Hypertension). Blood pressure is considered high if it stays at or above 140/90 mmHg over time. If you have diabetes or chronic kidney disease, high blood pressure is defined as 130/80 mmHg or higher. (The mmHg is millimeters of mercurythe units used to measure blood pressure.)
                
Lack of physical activity.Too much sitting (sedentary lifestyle) and a lack of aerobic activity can worsen other risk factors for carotid artery disease, such as unhealthy blood cholesterol levels, high blood pressure, diabetes, and overweight or obesity.
                
Metabolic syndrome. Metabolic syndrome is the name for a group of risk factors that raise your risk for stroke and other health problems, such as diabetes and heart disease. The five metabolic risk factors are a large waistline (abdominal obesity), a high triglyceride level (a type of fat found in the blood), a low HDL cholesterol level, high blood pressure, and high blood sugar. Metabolic syndrome is diagnosed if you have at least three of these metabolic risk factors.
                
Older age. As you age, your risk for atherosclerosis increases. The process of atherosclerosis begins in youth and typically progresses over many decades before diseases develop.
                
Overweight or obesity. The terms overweight and obesity refer to body weight thats greater than what is considered healthy for a certain height.
                
Smoking. Smoking can damage and tighten blood vessels, lead to unhealthy cholesterol levels, and raise blood pressure. Smoking also can limit how much oxygen reaches the bodys tissues.
                
Unhealthy blood cholesterol levels. This includes high LDL (bad) cholesterol) and low HDL (good) cholesterol.
                
Unhealthy diet. An unhealthy diet can raise your risk for carotid artery disease. Foods that are high in saturated and trans fats, cholesterol, sodium, and sugar can worsen other risk factors for carotid artery disease.
                
Having any of these risk factors does not guarantee that youll develop carotid artery disease. However, if you know that you have one or more risk factors, you can take steps to help prevent or delay the disease.
                
If you have plaque buildup in your carotid arteries, you also may have plaque buildup in other arteries. People who have carotid artery disease also are at increased risk for coronary heartdisease.

Question: Who is at risk for Varicose Veins? ?
Answer: Many factors may raise your risk for varicose veins, including family history, older age, gender, pregnancy, overweight or obesity, lack of movement, and leg trauma.
                
Family History
                
Having family members who have varicose veins may raise your risk for the condition. About half of all people who have varicose veins have a family history of them.
                
Older Age
                
Getting older may raise your risk for varicose veins. The normal wear and tear of aging may cause the valves in your veins to weaken and not work well.
                
Gender
                
Women tend to get varicose veins more often than men. Hormonal changes that occur during puberty, pregnancy, and menopause (or with the use of birth control pills) may raise a woman's risk for varicose veins.
                
Pregnancy
                
During pregnancy, the growing fetus puts pressure on the veins in the mother's legs. Varicose veins that occur during pregnancy usually get better within 3 to 12 months of delivery.
                
Overweight or Obesity
                
Being overweight or obese can put extra pressure on your veins. This can lead to varicose veins. For more information about overweight and obesity, go to the Health Topics Overweight and Obesity article.
                
Lack of Movement
                
Standing or sitting for a long time, especially with your legs bent or crossed, may raise your risk for varicose veins. This is because staying in one position for a long time may force your veins to work harder to pump blood to your heart.
                
Leg Trauma
                
Previous blood clots or traumatic damage to the valves in your veins can weaken their ability to move blood back to the heart, increasing the risk for varicose veins.

Question: Who is at risk for Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura? ?
Answer: Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a rare disorder. Most cases of TTP are acquired. Acquired TTP mostly occurs in adults, but it can affect children. The condition occurs more often in women and in Black people than in other groups.
                
Inherited TTP mainly affects newborns and children. Most people who have inherited TTP begin to have symptoms soon after birth. Some, however, don't have symptoms until they're adults.
                
It isn't clear what triggers inherited and acquired TTP, but some factors may play a role. These factors may include:
                
Some diseases and conditions, such as pregnancy, cancer, HIV, lupus, and infections
                
Some medical procedures, such as surgery and blood and marrow stem cell transplant
                
Some medicines, such as chemotherapy, ticlopidine, clopidogrel, cyclosporine A, and hormone therapy and estrogens
                
Quinine, which is a substance often found in tonic water and nutritional health products

Question: Who is at risk for Mitral Valve Prolapse? ?
Answer: Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) affects people of all ages and both sexes; however, aging raises the risk of developing the disease.
                
Certain conditions have been associated with MVP, including:
                
A history of rheumatic fever
                
Connective tissue disorders, such as Marfan syndrome or Ehlers-Danlos syndrome
                
Graves disease
                
Scoliosis and other skeletal problems
                
Some types of muscular dystrophy

Question: Who is at risk for Heart Failure? ?
Answer: About 5.7 million people in the United States have heart failure. The number of people who have this condition is growing.
                
Heart failure is more common in:
                
People who are age 65 or older. Aging can weaken the heart muscle. Older people also may have had diseases for many years that led to heart failure. Heart failure is a leading cause of hospital stays among people on Medicare.
                
Blacks are more likely to have heart failure than people of other races. Theyre also more likely to have symptoms at a younger age, have more hospital visits due to heart failure, and die from heart failure.
                
People who areoverweight. Excess weight puts strain on the heart. Being overweight also increases your risk of heart disease and type 2diabetes. These diseases can lead to heart failure.
                
People who have had a heart attack. Damage to the heart muscle from a heart attack and can weaken the heart muscle.
                
Children who havecongenital heart defectsalso can develop heart failure. These defects occur if the heart, heart valves, or blood vessels near the heart dont form correctly while a baby is in the womb. Congenital heart defects can make the heart work harder. This weakens the heart muscle, which can lead to heart failure. Children dont have the same symptoms of heart failure or get the same treatments as adults. This Health Topic focuses on heart failure in adults.

Question: Who is at risk for Broken Heart Syndrome? ?
Answer: Broken heart syndrome affects women more often than men. Often, people who experience broken heart syndrome have previously been healthy. Research shows that the traditional risk factors for heart disease may not apply to broken heart syndrome.
                
People who might be at increased risk for broken heart syndrome include:
                
Women who have gone through menopause, particularly women in their sixties and seventies
                
People who often have no previous history of heart disease
                
Asian and White populations
                
Although these are the characteristics for most cases of broken heart syndrome, the condition can occur in anyone.
                
Research is ongoing to learn more about broken heart syndrome and its causes.

Question: Who is at risk for Narcolepsy? ?
Answer: Narcolepsy affects men and women. Symptoms usually begin during the teen or young adult years. The disorder also can develop later in life or in children, but it's rare before age 5.
                
Researchers think that certain factors may work together to cause narcolepsy. If these factors affect you, you may be at higher risk for the disorder. (For more information, go to "What Causes Narcolepsy?")

Question: Who is at risk for Bronchiectasis? ?
Answer: People who have conditions that damage the lungs or increase the risk of lung infections are at risk for bronchiectasis. Such conditions include:
                
Cystic fibrosis. This disease leads to almost half of the cases of bronchiectasis in the United States.
                
Immunodeficiency disorders, such as common variable immunodeficiency and, less often, HIV and AIDS.
                
Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis. This is an allergic reaction to a fungus called aspergillus. The reaction causes swelling in the airways.
                
Disorders that affect cilia function, such as primary ciliary dyskinesia. Cilia are small, hair-like structures that line your airways. They help clear mucus (a slimy substance) out of your airways.
                
Bronchiectasis can develop at any age. Overall, two-thirds of people who have the condition are women. However, in children, the condition is more common in boys than in girls.

Question: Who is at risk for Coronary Microvascular Disease? ?
Answer: Coronary microvascular disease can affect both men and women. However, women may be at risk for coronary microvascular disease if they have lower than normal levels of estrogen at any point in their adult lives. (This refers to the estrogen that the ovaries produce, not the estrogen used in hormone therapy.) Low estrogen levels before menopause can raise younger womens risk for the disease. Causes of low estrogen levels in younger women can be mental stress or a problem with the function of theovaries.
                
The causes of coronary microvascular disease and atherosclerosis are also considered risk factors for the disease.

Question: Who is at risk for Pneumonia? ?
Answer: Pneumonia can affect people of all ages. However, two age groups are at greater risk of developing pneumonia:
                
Infants who are 2 years old or younger (because their immune systems are still developing during the first few years of life)
                
People who are 65 years old or older
                
Other conditions and factors also raise your risk for pneumonia. You're more likely to get pneumonia if you have a lung disease or other serious disease. Examples include cystic fibrosis, asthma, COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), bronchiectasis, diabetes, heart failure, and sickle cell anemia.
                
You're at greater risk for pneumonia if you're in a hospital intensive-care unit, especially if you're on a ventilator (a machine that helps you breathe).
                
Having a weak or suppressed immune system also raises your risk for pneumonia. A weak immune system may be the result of a disease such as HIV/AIDS. A suppressed immune system may be due to an organ transplant or blood and marrow stem cell transplant, chemotherapy (a treatment for cancer), or long-term steroid use.
                
Your risk for pneumonia also increases if you have trouble coughing because of a stroke or problems swallowing. You're also at higher risk if you can't move around much or are sedated (given medicine to make you relaxed or sleepy).
                
Smoking cigarettes, abusing alcohol, or being undernourished also raises your risk for pneumonia. Your risk also goes up if you've recently had a cold or the flu, or if you're exposed to certain chemicals, pollutants, or toxic fumes.

Question: Who is at risk for Pernicious Anemia? ?
Answer: Pernicious anemia is more common in people of Northern European and African descent than in other ethnic groups.
                
Older people also are at higher risk for the condition. This is mainly due to a lack of stomach acid and intrinsic factor, which prevents the small intestine from absorbing vitamin B12. As people grow older, they tend to make less stomach acid.
                
Pernicious anemia also can occur in younger people and other populations. You're at higher risk for pernicious anemia if you:
                
Have a family history of the condition.
                
Have had part or all of your stomach surgically removed. The stomach makes intrinsic factor. This protein helps your body absorb vitamin B12.
                
Have an autoimmune disorder that involves the endocrine glands, such as Addison's disease, type 1 diabetes, Graves' disease, or vitiligo. Research suggests a link may exist between these autoimmune disorders and pernicious anemia that's caused by an autoimmune response.
                
Have had part or all of your small intestine surgically removed. The small intestine is where vitamin B12 is absorbed.
                
Have certain intestinal diseases or other disorders that may prevent your body from properly absorbing vitamin B12. Examples include Crohn's disease, intestinal infections, and HIV.
                
Take medicines that prevent your body from properly absorbing vitamin B12. Examples of such medicines include antibiotics and certain seizure medicines.
                
Are a strict vegetarian who doesn't eat any animal or dairy products and doesn't take a vitamin B12 supplement, or if you eat poorly overall.

Question: Who is at risk for Sleep Apnea? ?
Answer: Obstructive sleep apnea is a common condition. About half of the people who have this condition are overweight.
                
Men are more likely than women to have sleep apnea. Although the condition can occur at any age, the risk increases as you get older. A family history of sleep apnea also increases your risk for the condition.
                
People who have small airways in their noses, throats, or mouths are more likely to have sleep apnea. Small airways might be due to the shape of these structures or allergies or other conditions that cause congestion.
                
Small children might have enlarged tonsil tissues in their throats. Enlarged tonsil tissues raise a childs risk for sleep apnea. Overweight children also might be at increased risk for sleep apnea.
                
About half of the people who have sleep apnea also have high blood pressure. Sleep apnea also is linked to smoking, metabolic syndrome, diabetes, and risk factors for stroke and heart failure.
                
Race and ethnicity might play a role in the risk of developing sleep apnea. However, more research is needed.

Question: Who is at risk for Sleep Deprivation and Deficiency? ?
Answer: Sleep deficiency, which includes sleep deprivation, affects people of all ages, races, and ethnicities. Certain groups of people may be more likely to be sleep deficient. Examples include people who:
                
Have limited time available for sleep, such as caregivers or people working long hours or more than one job
                
Have schedules that conflict with their internal body clocks, such as shift workers, first responders, teens who have early school schedules, or people who must travel for work
                
Make lifestyle choices that prevent them from getting enough sleep, such as taking medicine to stay awake, abusing alcohol or drugs, or not leaving enough time for sleep
                
Have undiagnosed or untreated medical problems, such as stress, anxiety, or sleep disorders
                
Have medical conditions or take medicines that interfere with sleep
                
Certain medical conditions have been linked to sleep disorders. These conditions include heart failure, heart disease, obesity, diabetes, high blood pressure, stroke or transient ischemic attack (mini-stroke), depression, and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
                
If you have or have had one of these conditions, ask your doctor whether you might benefit from a sleep study.
                
A sleep study allows your doctor to measure how much and how well you sleep. It also helps show whether you have sleep problems and how severe they are. For more information, go to the Health Topics Sleep Studies article.
                
If you have a child who is overweight, talk with the doctor about your child's sleep habits.

Question: Who is at risk for Electrocardiogram? ?
Answer: An electrocardiogram (EKG) has no serious risks. It's a harmless, painless test that detects the heart's electrical activity. EKGs don't give off electrical charges, such as shocks.
                
You may develop a mild rash where the electrodes (soft patches) were attached. This rash often goes away without treatment.

Question: Who is at risk for Atherosclerosis? ?
Answer: The exact cause of atherosclerosis isn't known. However, certain traits, conditions, or habits may raise your risk for the disease. These conditions are known as risk factors. The more risk factors you have, the more likely it is that you'll develop atherosclerosis.
                
You can control most risk factors and help prevent or delay atherosclerosis. Other risk factors can't be controlled.
                
Major Risk Factors
                
Unhealthy blood cholesterol levels. This includes high LDL cholesterol (sometimes called "bad" cholesterol) and low HDL cholesterol (sometimes called "good" cholesterol).
                
High blood pressure. Blood pressure is considered high if it stays at or above 140/90 mmHg over time. If you have diabetes or chronic kidney disease, high blood pressure is defined as 130/80 mmHg or higher. (The mmHg is millimeters of mercurythe units used to measure blood pressure.)
                
Smoking. Smoking can damage and tighten blood vessels, raise cholesterol levels, and raise blood pressure. Smoking also doesn't allow enough oxygen to reach the body's tissues.
                
Insulin resistance. This condition occurs if the body can't use its insulin properly. Insulin is a hormone that helps move blood sugar into cells where it's used as an energy source. Insulin resistance may lead to diabetes.
                
Diabetes. With this disease, the body's blood sugar level is too high because the body doesn't make enough insulin or doesn't use its insulin properly.
                
Overweight or obesity. The terms "overweight" and "obesity" refer to body weight that's greater than what is considered healthy for a certain height.
                
Lack of physical activity. A lack of physical activity can worsen other risk factors for atherosclerosis, such as unhealthy blood cholesterol levels, high blood pressure, diabetes, and overweight and obesity.
                
Unhealthy diet. An unhealthy diet can raise your risk for atherosclerosis. Foods that are high in saturated and trans fats, cholesterol, sodium (salt), and sugar can worsen other atherosclerosis risk factors.
                
Older age. As you get older, your risk for atherosclerosis increases. Genetic or lifestyle factors cause plaque to build up in your arteries as you age. By the time you're middle-aged or older, enough plaque has built up to cause signs or symptoms. In men, the risk increases after age 45. In women, the risk increases after age 55.
                
Family history of early heart disease. Your risk for atherosclerosis increases if your father or a brother was diagnosed with heart disease before 55 years of age, or if your mother or a sister was diagnosed with heart disease before 65 years of age.
                
Although age and a family history of early heart disease are risk factors, it doesn't mean that you'll develop atherosclerosis if you have one or both. Controlling other risk factors often can lessen genetic influences and prevent atherosclerosis, even in older adults.
                
Studies show that an increasing number of children and youth are at risk for atherosclerosis. This is due to a number of causes, including rising childhood obesity rates.
                
Emerging Risk Factors
                
Scientists continue to study other possible risk factors for atherosclerosis.
                
High levels of a protein called C-reactive protein (CRP) in the blood may raise the risk for atherosclerosis and heart attack. High levels of CRP are a sign of inflammation in the body.
                
Inflammation is the body's response to injury or infection. Damage to the arteries' inner walls seems to trigger inflammation and help plaque grow.
                
People who have low CRP levels may develop atherosclerosis at a slower rate than people who have high CRP levels. Research is under way to find out whether reducing inflammation and lowering CRP levels also can reduce the risk for atherosclerosis.
                
High levels of triglycerides (tri-GLIH-seh-rides) in the blood also may raise the risk for atherosclerosis, especially in women. Triglycerides are a type of fat.
                
Studies are under way to find out whether genetics may play a role in atherosclerosis risk.
                
Other Factors That Affect Atherosclerosis
                
Other factors also may raise your risk for atherosclerosis, such as:
                
Sleep apnea. Sleep apnea is a disorder that causes one or more pauses in breathing or shallow breaths while you sleep. Untreated sleep apnea can raise your risk for high blood pressure, diabetes, and even a heart attack or stroke.
                
Stress. Research shows that the most commonly reported "trigger" for a heart attack is an emotionally upsetting event, especially one involving anger.
                
Alcohol. Heavy drinking can damage the heart muscle and worsen other risk factors for atherosclerosis. Men should have no more than two drinks containing alcohol a day. Women should have no more than one drink containing alcohol a day.

Question: Who is at risk for Coronary Heart Disease Risk Factors? ?
Answer: High Blood Cholesterol and Triglyceride Levels
                
Cholesterol
                
High blood cholesterol is a condition in which your blood has too much cholesterola waxy, fat-like substance. The higher your blood cholesterol level, the greater your risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) and heart attack.
                
Cholesterol travels through the bloodstream in small packages called lipoproteins. Two major kinds of lipoproteins carry cholesterol throughout your body:
                
Low-density lipoproteins (LDL). LDL cholesterol sometimes is called "bad" cholesterol. This is because it carries cholesterol to tissues, including your heart arteries. A high LDL cholesterol level raises your risk of CHD.
                
High-density lipoproteins (HDL). HDL cholesterol sometimes is called "good" cholesterol. This is because it helps remove cholesterol from your arteries. A low HDL cholesterol level raises your risk of CHD.
                
Many factors affect your cholesterol levels. For example, after menopause, women's LDL cholesterol levels tend to rise, and their HDL cholesterol levels tend to fall. Other factorssuch as age, gender, diet, and physical activityalso affect your cholesterol levels.
                
Healthy levels of both LDL and HDL cholesterol will prevent plaque from building up in your arteries. Routine blood tests can show whether your blood cholesterol levels are healthy. Talk with your doctor about having your cholesterol tested and what the results mean.
                
Children also can have unhealthy cholesterol levels, especially if they're overweight or their parents have high blood cholesterol. Talk with your child's doctor about testing your child' cholesterol levels.
                
To learn more about high blood cholesterol and how to manage the condition, go to the Health Topics High Blood Cholesterol article.
                
Triglycerides
                
Triglycerides are a type of fat found in the blood. Some studies suggest that a high level of triglycerides in the blood may raise the risk of CHD, especially in women.
                
High Blood Pressure
                
"Blood pressure" is the force of blood pushing against the walls of your arteries as your heart pumps blood. If this pressure rises and stays high over time, it can damage your heart and lead to plaque buildup.All levels above 120/80 mmHg raise your risk of CHD. This risk grows as blood pressure levels rise. Only one of the two blood pressure numbers has to be above normal to put you at greater risk of CHD and heart attack.
                

                
Most adults should have their blood pressure checked at least once a year. If you have high blood pressure, you'll likely need to be checked more often. Talk with your doctor about how often you should have your blood pressure checked.
                
Children also can develop high blood pressure, especially if they're overweight. Your child's doctor should check your child's blood pressure at each routine checkup.
                
Both children and adults are more likely to develop high blood pressure if they're overweight or have diabetes.
                
For more information about high blood pressure and how to manage the condition, go to the Health Topics High Blood Pressure article.
                
Diabetes and Prediabetes
                
Diabetes is a disease in which the body's blood sugar level is too high. The two types of diabetes are type 1 and type 2.
                
In type 1 diabetes, the body's blood sugar level is high because the body doesn't make enough insulin. Insulin is a hormone that helps move blood sugar into cells, where it's used for energy. In type 2 diabetes, the body's blood sugar level is high mainly because the body doesn't use its insulin properly.
                
Over time, a high blood sugar level can lead to increased plaque buildup in your arteries. Having diabetes doubles your risk of CHD.
                
Prediabetes is a condition in which your blood sugar level is higher than normal, but not as high as it is in diabetes. If you have prediabetes and don't take steps to manage it, you'll likely develop type 2 diabetes within 10 years. You're also at higher risk of CHD.
                
Being overweight or obese raises your risk of type 2 diabetes. With modest weight loss and moderate physical activity, people who have prediabetes may be able to delay or prevent type 2 diabetes. They also may be able to lower their risk of CHD and heart attack. Weight loss and physical activity also can help control diabetes.
                
Even children can develop type 2 diabetes. Most children who have type 2 diabetes are overweight.
                
Type 2 diabetes develops over time and sometimes has no symptoms. Go to your doctor or local clinic to have your blood sugar levels tested regularly to check for diabetes and prediabetes.
                
For more information about diabetes and heart disease, go to the Health Topics Diabetic Heart Disease article. For more information about diabetes and prediabetes, go to the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases' (NIDDK's) Introduction to Diabetes.
                
Overweight and Obesity
                
The terms "overweight" and "obesity" refer to body weight that's greater than what is considered healthy for a certain height. More than two-thirds of American adults are overweight, and almost one-third of these adults are obese.
                
The most useful measure of overweight and obesity is body mass index (BMI).You can use the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's (NHLBI's) online BMI calculator to figure out your BMI, or your doctor can help you.
                
Overweight is defined differently for children and teens than it is for adults. Children are still growing, and boys and girls mature at different rates. Thus, BMIs for children and teens compare their heights and weights against growth charts that take age and gender into account. This is called BMI-for-age percentile.
                
Being overweight or obese can raise your risk of CHD and heart attack. This is mainly because overweight and obesity are linked to other CHD risk factors, such as high blood cholesterol and triglyceride levels, high blood pressure, and diabetes.
                
For more information, go to the Health Topics Overweight and Obesity article.
                
Smoking
                
Smoking tobacco or long-term exposure to secondhand smoke raises your risk of CHD and heart attack.
                
Smoking triggers a buildup of plaque in your arteries. Smoking also increases the risk of blood clots forming in your arteries. Blood clots can block plaque-narrowed arteries and cause a heart attack.Some research shows that smoking raises your risk of CHD in part by lowering HDL cholesterol levels.
                
The more you smoke, the greater your risk of heart attack. The benefits of quitting smoking occur no matter how long or how much you've smoked. Heart disease risk associated with smoking begins to decrease soon after you quit, and for many people it continues to decrease over time.
                
Most people who smoke start when they're teens. Parents can help prevent their children from smoking by not smoking themselves. Talk with your child about the health dangers of smoking and ways to overcome peer pressure to smoke.
                
For more information, including tips on how to quit smoking, go to the Health Topics Smoking and Your Heart article and the NHLBI's "Your Guide to a Healthy Heart."
                
For more information about children and smoking, go to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' (HHS') Kids and Smoking Web page and the CDC's Smoking and Tobacco Use Web page.
                
Lack of Physical Activity
                
Inactive people are nearly twice as likely to develop CHD as those who are active. A lack of physical activity can worsen other CHD risk factors, such as high blood cholesterol and triglyceride levels, high blood pressure, diabetes and prediabetes, and overweight and obesity.
                
It's important for children and adults to make physical activity part of their daily routines. One reason many Americans aren't active enough is because of hours spent in front of TVs and computers doing work, schoolwork, and leisure activities.
                
Some experts advise that children and teens should reduce screen time because it limits time for physical activity. They recommend that children aged 2 and older should spend no more than 2 hours a day watching TV or using a computer (except for school work).
                
Being physically active is one of the most important things you can do to keep your heart healthy. The good news is that even modest amounts of physical activity are good for your health. The more active you are, the more you will benefit.
                
For more information, go to HHS' "2008 Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans," the Health Topics Physical Activity and Your Heart article, and the NHLBI's "Your Guide to Physical Activity and Your Heart."
                
Unhealthy Diet
                
An unhealthy diet can raise your risk of CHD. For example, foods that are high in saturated and trans fats and cholesterol raise LDL cholesterol. Thus, you should try to limit these foods.
                
It's also important to limit foods that are high in sodium (salt) and added sugars. A high-salt diet can raise your risk of high blood pressure.
                
Added sugars will give you extra calories without nutrients like vitamins and minerals. This can cause you to gain weight, which raises your risk of CHD. Added sugars are found in many desserts, canned fruits packed in syrup, fruit drinks, and nondiet sodas.
                
Stress
                
Stress and anxiety may play a role in causing CHD. Stress and anxiety also can trigger your arteries to tighten. This can raise your blood pressure and your risk of heart attack.
                
The most commonly reported trigger for a heart attack is an emotionally upsetting event, especially one involving anger. Stress also may indirectly raise your risk of CHD if it makes you more likely to smoke or overeat foods high in fat and sugar.
                
Age
                
In men, the risk for coronary heart disease (CHD) increases starting around age 45. In women, the risk for CHD increases starting around age 55. Most people have some plaque buildup in their heart arteries by the time theyre in their 70s. However, only about 25 percent of those people have chest pain, heart attacks, or other signs of CHD.
                
Gender
                
Some risk factors may affect CHD risk differently in women than in men. For example, estrogen provides women some protection against CHD, whereas diabetes raises the risk of CHD more in women than in men.
                
Also, some risk factors for heart disease only affect women, such as preeclampsia, a condition that can develop during pregnancy. Preeclampsia is linked to an increased lifetime risk of heart disease, including CHD, heart attack, heart failure, and high blood pressure. (Likewise, having heart disease risk factors, such as diabetes or obesity, increases a womans risk of preeclampsia.)
                
Family History
                
A family history of early CHD is a risk factor for developing CHD, specifically if a father or brother is diagnosed before age 55, or a mother or sister is diagnosed before age 65.

Question: Who is at risk for Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia? ?
Answer: Primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) is a rare disease that affects both males and females. The disease also affects people from all racial and ethnic groups.
                
Some people who have PCD have breathing problems from the moment of birth. However, other people can go through all or most of their lives without knowing that they have the disease.

Question: Who is at risk for Kawasaki Disease? ?
Answer: Kawasaki disease affects children of all races and ages and both genders. It occurs most often in children of Asian and Pacific Island descent.
                
The disease is more likely to affect boys than girls. Most cases occur in children younger than 5 years old. Kawasaki disease is rare in children older than 8.

Question: Who is at risk for Hypersensitivity Pneumonitis? ?
Answer: People who repeatedly breathe in foreign substances are at risk for hypersensitivity pneumonitis (HP). These substances, which also are known as antigens, include molds, dusts, and chemicals. However, most people who breathe in these substances don't develop HP.
                
People at increased risk include:
                
Farm and dairy cattle workers
                
People who use hot tubs often
                
People who are exposed to molds or dusts from humidifiers, heating systems, or wet carpeting
                
Bird fanciers (people who keep pet birds) and poultry handlers
                
Florists and landscapers, especially those who use liquid chemicals on lawns and gardens
                
People who work in grain and flour processing and loading
                
Lumber milling, construction, wood stripping, and paper and wallboard workers
                
People who make plastics or electronics, and those who paint or work with other chemicals

Question: Who is at risk for High Blood Pressure? ?
Answer: Anyone can develop high blood pressure; however, age, race or ethnicity, being overweight, gender, lifestyle habits, and a family history of high blood pressure can increase your risk for developing high blood pressure.
                
Age
                
Blood pressure tends to rise with age. About 65 percent of Americans age 60 or older have high blood pressure. However, the risk for prehypertension and high blood pressure is increasing for children and teens, possibly due to the rise in the number of overweight children and teens.
                
Race/Ethnicity
                
High blood pressure is more common in African American adults than in Caucasian or Hispanic American adults. Compared with these ethnic groups, African Americans:
                
Tend to get high blood pressure earlier in life.
                
Often, on average, have higher blood pressure numbers.
                
Are less likely to achieve target blood pressure goals with treatment.
                
Overweight
                
You are more likely to develop prehypertension or high blood pressure if youre overweight or obese. The terms overweight and obese refer to body weight thats greater than what is considered healthy for a certain height.
                
Gender
                
Before age 55, men are more likely than women to develop high blood pressure. After age 55, women are more likely than men to develop high blood pressure.
                
Lifestyle Habits
                
Unhealthy lifestyle habits can raise your risk for high blood pressure, and they include:
                
Eating too much sodium or too little potassium
                
Lack of physical activity
                
Drinking too much alcohol
                
Stress
                
Family History
                
A family history of high blood pressure raises the risk of developing prehypertension or high blood pressure. Some people have a high sensitivity to sodium and salt, which may increase their risk for high blood pressure and may run in families. Genetic causes of this condition are why family history is a risk factor for this condition.

Question: Who is at risk for Metabolic Syndrome? ?
Answer: People at greatest risk for metabolic syndrome have these underlying causes:
                
Abdominal obesity (a large waistline)
                
An inactive lifestyle
                
Insulin resistance
                
Some people are at risk for metabolic syndrome because they take medicines that cause weight gain or changes in blood pressure, blood cholesterol, and blood sugar levels. These medicines most often are used to treat inflammation, allergies, HIV, and depression and other types of mental illness.
                
Populations Affected
                
Some racial and ethnic groups in the United States are at higher risk for metabolic syndrome than others. Mexican Americans have the highest rate of metabolic syndrome, followed by whites and blacks.
                
Other groups at increased risk for metabolic syndrome include:
                
People who have a personal history of diabetes
                
People who have a sibling or parent who hasdiabetes
                
Women when compared with men
                
Women who have a personal history of polycystic ovarian syndrome (a tendency to develop cysts on the ovaries)
                
Heart Disease Risk
                
Metabolic syndrome increases your risk for coronary heart disease. Other risk factors, besides metabolic syndrome, also increase your risk for heart disease. For example, a high LDL (bad) cholesterol level and smoking are major risk factors for heart disease. For details about all of the risk factors for heart disease, go to the Coronary Heart Disease Risk Factors HealthTopic.
                
Even if you dont have metabolic syndrome, you should find out your short-term risk for heart disease. The National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) divides short-term heart disease risk into four categories. Your risk category depends on which risk factors you have and how many you have.
                
Your risk factors are used to calculate your 10-year risk of developing heart disease. The NCEP has an online calculator that you can use to estimate your 10-year risk of having a heart attack.
                
High risk: Youre in this category if you already have heart disease or diabetes, or if your 10-year risk score is more than 20 percent.
                
Moderately high risk: Youre in this category if you have two or more risk factors and your 10-year risk score is 10 percent to 20 percent.
                
Moderate risk: Youre in this category if you have two or more risk factors and your 10-year risk score is less than 10 percent.
                
Lower risk: Youre in this category if you have zero or one risk factor.
                
Even if your 10-year risk score isnt high, metabolic syndrome will increase your risk for coronary heart disease over time.

Question: Who is at risk for Heart Attack? ?
Answer: Certain risk factors make it more likely that you'll develop coronary heart disease (CHD) and have a heart attack. You can control many of these risk factors.
                
Risk Factors You Can Control
                
The major risk factors for a heart attack that you can control include:
                
Smoking
                
High blood pressure
                
High blood cholesterol
                
Overweight and obesity
                
An unhealthy diet (for example, a diet high in saturated fat, trans fat, cholesterol, and sodium)
                
Lack of routine physical activity
                
High blood sugar due to insulin resistance or diabetes
                
Some of these risk factorssuch as obesity, high blood pressure, and high blood sugartend to occur together. When they do, it's called metabolic syndrome.
                
In general, a person who has metabolic syndrome is twice as likely to develop heart disease and five times as likely to develop diabetes as someone who doesn't have metabolic syndrome.
                
For more information about the risk factors that are part of metabolic syndrome, go to the Health Topics Metabolic Syndrome article.
                
Risk Factors You Can't Control
                
Risk factors that you can't control include:
                
Age. The risk of heart disease increases for men after age 45 and for women after age 55 (or after menopause).
                
Family history of early heart disease. Your risk increases if your father or a brother was diagnosed with heart disease before 55 years of age, or if your mother or a sister was diagnosed with heart disease before 65 years of age.
                
Preeclampsia (pre-e-KLAMP-se-ah). This condition can develop during pregnancy. The two main signs of preeclampsia are a rise in blood pressure and excess protein in the urine. Preeclampsia is linked to an increased lifetime risk of heart disease, including CHD, heart attack, heart failure, and high blood pressure.

Question: Who is at risk for Pericarditis? ?
Answer: Pericarditis occurs in people of all ages. However, men aged 20 to 50 are more likely to develop it than others.
                
People who are treated for acute pericarditis may get it again. This may happen in 15 to 30 percent of people who have the condition. A small number of these people go on to develop chronic pericarditis.

Question: Who is at risk for Obesity Hypoventilation Syndrome? ?
Answer: People who are obese are at risk for obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS). "Obesity" refers to having too much body fat. People who are obese have body weight that's greater than what is considered healthy for a certain height.
                
The most useful measure of obesity is body mass index (BMI). BMI is calculated from your height and weight. In adults, a BMI of 30 or more is considered obese.
                
You can use the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's (NHLBI's) online BMI calculator to figure out your BMI, or your doctor can help you.
                
If you are obese, you're at greater risk for OHS if your BMI is 40 or higher. You're also at greater risk if most of your excess weight is around your waist, rather than at your hips. This is referred to as "abdominal obesity."
                
OHS tends to occur more often in men than women. At the time of diagnosis, most people are 40 to 60 years old.

Question: Who is at risk for Hemolytic Anemia? ?
Answer: Hemolytic anemia can affect people of all ages and races and both sexes. Some types of hemolytic anemia are more likely to occur in certain populations than others.
                
For example, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency mostly affects males of African or Mediterranean descent. In the United States, the condition is more common among African Americans than Caucasians.
                
In the United States, sickle cell anemia mainly affects African Americans.

Question: Who is at risk for Thalassemias? ?
Answer: Family history and ancestry are the two risk factors for thalassemias.
                
Family History
                
Thalassemias are inheritedthat is, the genes for the disorders are passed from parents to their children. If your parents have missing or altered hemoglobin-making genes, you may have thalassemia.
                
Ancestry
                
Thalassemias occur most often among people of Italian, Greek, Middle Eastern, Southern Asian, and African descent.

Question: Who is at risk for Fanconi Anemia? ?
Answer: Fanconi anemia (FA) occurs in all racial and ethnic groups and affects men and women equally.
                
In the United States, about 1 out of every 181 people is an FA carrier. This carrier rate leads to about 1 in 130,000 people being born with FA.
                
Two ethnic groups, Ashkenazi Jews and Afrikaners, are more likely than other groups to have FA or be FA carriers.
                
Ashkenazi Jews are people who are descended from the Jewish population of Eastern Europe. Afrikaners are White natives of South Africa who speak a language called Afrikaans. This ethnic group is descended from early Dutch, French, and German settlers.
                
In the United States, 1 out of 90 Ashkenazi Jews is an FA carrier, and 1 out of 30,000 is born with FA.
                
Major Risk Factors
                
FA is an inherited diseasethat is, it's passed from parents to children through genes. At least 13 faulty genes are associated with FA. FA occurs if both parents pass the same faulty FA gene to their child.
                
Children born into families with histories of FA are at risk of inheriting the disorder. Children whose mothers and fathers both have family histories of FA are at even greater risk. A family history of FA means that it's possible that a parent carries a faulty gene associated with the disorder.
                
Children whose parents both carry the same faulty gene are at greatest risk of inheriting FA. Even if these children aren't born with FA, they're still at risk of being FA carriers.
                
Children who have only one parent who carries a faulty FA gene also are at risk of being carriers. However, they're not at risk of having FA.

Question: Who is at risk for Atrial Fibrillation? ?
Answer: Atrial fibrillation (AF) affects millions of people, and the number is rising. Men are more likely than women to have the condition. In the United States, AF is more common among Whites than African Americans or Hispanic Americans.
                
The risk of AF increases as you age. This is mostly because your risk for heart disease and other conditions that can cause AF also increases as you age. However, about half of the people who have AF are younger than 75.
                
AF is uncommon in children.
                
Major Risk Factors
                
AF is more common in people who have:
                
High blood pressure
                
Coronary heart disease (CHD)
                
Heart failure
                
Rheumatic (ru-MAT-ik) heart disease
                
Structural heart defects, such as mitral valve prolapse
                
Pericarditis (PER-i-kar-DI-tis; a condition in which the membrane, or sac, around your heart is inflamed)
                
Congenital heart defects
                
Sick sinus syndrome (a condition in which the heart's electrical signals don't fire properly and the heart rate slows down; sometimes the heart will switch back and forth between a slow rate and a fast rate)
                
AF also is more common in people who are having heart attacks or who have just had surgery.
                
Other Risk Factors
                
Other conditions that raise your risk for AF include hyperthyroidism (too much thyroid hormone), obesity, diabetes, and lung disease.
                
Certain factors also can raise your risk for AF. For example, drinking large amounts of alcohol, especially binge drinking, raises your risk. Even modest amounts of alcohol can trigger AF in some people. Caffeine or psychological stress also may trigger AF in some people.
                
Some data suggest that people who have sleep apnea are at greater risk for AF. Sleep apnea is a common disorder that causes one or more pauses in breathing or shallow breaths while you sleep.
                
Metabolic syndrome also raises your risk for AF. Metabolic syndrome is the name for a group of risk factors that raises your risk for CHD and other health problems, such as diabetes and stroke.
                
Research suggests that people who receive high-dose steroid therapy are at increased risk for AF. This therapy is used for asthma and some inflammatory conditions. It may act as a trigger in people who have other AF risk factors.
                
Genetic factors also may play a role in causing AF. However, their role isn't fully known.

Question: Who is at risk for Angina? ?
Answer: Angina is a symptom of an underlying heart problem. Its usually a symptom of coronary heart disease (CHD), but it also can be a symptom of coronary microvascular disease (MVD). So, if youre at risk for CHD or coronary MVD, youre also at risk for angina.
                
The major risk factors for CHD and coronary MVD include:
                
Unhealthy cholesterol levels.
                
High blood pressure.
                
Smoking.
                
Insulin resistance or diabetes.
                
Overweight or obesity.
                
Metabolic syndrome.
                
Lack of physical activity.
                
Unhealthy diet.
                
Older age. (The risk increases for men after 45 years of age and for women after 55 years of age.)
                
Family history of early heart disease.
                
For more detailed information about CHD and coronary MVD risk factors, visit the Diseases and Conditions Index Coronary Heart Disease, Coronary Heart Disease Risk Factors, and Coronary Microvascular Disease articles.
                
People sometimes think that because men have more heart attacks than women, men also suffer from angina more often. In fact, overall, angina occurs equally among men and women.
                
Microvascular angina, however, occurs more often in women. About 70 percent of the cases of microvascular angina occur in women around the time of menopause.
                
Unstable angina occurs more often in older adults. Variant angina is rare; it accounts for only about 2 out of 100 cases of angina. People who have variant angina often are younger than those who have other forms of angina.

Question: Who is at risk for Heart Block? ?
Answer: The risk factors for congenital and acquired heart block are different.
                
Congenital Heart Block
                
If a pregnant woman has an autoimmune disease, such as lupus, her fetus is at risk for heart block.
                
Autoimmune diseases can cause the body to make proteins called antibodies that can cross the placenta. (The placenta is the organ that attaches the umbilical cord to the mother's womb.) These antibodies may damage the baby's heart and lead to congenital heart block.
                
Congenital heart defects also can cause heart block. These defects are problems with the heart's structure that are present at birth. Most of the time, doctors don't know what causes congenital heart defects.
                
Heredity may play a role in certain heart defects. For example, a parent who has a congenital heart defect might be more likely than other people to have a child with the condition.
                
Acquired Heart Block
                
Acquired heart block can occur in people of any age. However, most types of the condition are more common in older people. This is because many of the risk factors are more common in older people.
                
People who have a history of heart disease or heart attacks are at increased risk for heart block. Examples of heart disease that can lead to heart block include heart failure, coronary heart disease, and cardiomyopathy (heart muscle diseases).
                
Other diseases also may raise the risk of heart block, such as sarcoidosis and the degenerative muscle disorders Lev's disease and Lenegre's disease.
                
Exposure to toxic substances or taking certain medicines, such as digitalis, also can raise your risk for heart block.
                
Well-trained athletes and young people are at higher risk for first-degree heart block caused by an overly active vagus nerve. You have one vagus nerve on each side of your body. These nerves run from your brain stem all the way to your abdomen. Activity in the vagus nerve slows the heart rate.

Question: Who is at risk for Asthma? ?
Answer: Asthma affects people of all ages, but it most often starts during childhood. In the United States, more than 22 million people are known to have asthma. Nearly 6 million of these people are children.
                
Young children who often wheeze and have respiratory infectionsas well as certain other risk factorsare at highest risk of developing asthma that continues beyond 6 years of age. The other risk factors include having allergies, eczema (an allergic skin condition), or parents who have asthma.
                
Among children, more boys have asthma than girls. But among adults, more women have the disease than men. It's not clear whether or how sex and sex hormones play a role in causing asthma.
                
Most, but not all, people who have asthma have allergies.
                
Some people develop asthma because of contact with certain chemical irritants or industrial dusts in the workplace. This type of asthma is called occupational asthma.

Question: Who is at risk for Patent Ductus Arteriosus? ?
Answer: Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) is a relatively common congenital heart defect in the United States.
                
The condition occurs more often in premature infants (on average, occurring in about 8 of every 1,000 births). However, PDA also occurs in full-term infants (on average, occurring in about 2 of every 1,000 births).
                
PDA also is more common in:
                
Infants who have genetic conditions such as Down syndrome
                
Infants whose mothers had German measles (rubella) during pregnancy
                
PDA is twice as common in girls as it is in boys.

Question: Who is at risk for Sickle Cell Disease? ?
Answer: In the United States, most people with sickle cell disease (SCD) are of African ancestry or identify themselves as black.
                
About 1 in 13 African American babies is born with sickle cell trait.
                
About 1 in every 365 black children is born with sickle cell disease.
                
There are also many people with this disease who come from Hispanic, southern European, Middle Eastern, or Asian Indian backgrounds.
                
Approximately 100,000 Americans have SCD.

Question: Who is at risk for Polycythemia Vera? ?
Answer: Polycythemia vera (PV) is a rare blood disease. The disease affects people of all ages, but it's most common in adults who are older than 60. PV is rare in children and young adults. Men are at slightly higher risk for PV than women.

Question: Who is at risk for Heart Valve Disease? ?
Answer: Older age is a risk factor for heart valve disease. As you age, your heart valves thicken and become stiffer. Also, people are living longer now than in the past. As a result, heart valve disease has become an increasing problem.
                
People who have a history of infective endocarditis (IE), rheumatic fever, heart attack, or heart failureor previous heart valve diseasealso are at higher risk for heart valve disease. In addition, having risk factors for IE, such as intravenous drug use, increases the risk of heart valve disease.
                
You're also at higher risk for heart valve disease if you have risk factors for coronary heart disease. These risk factors include high blood cholesterol, high blood pressure, smoking, insulin resistance, diabetes, overweight or obesity, lack of physical activity, and a family history of early heart disease.
                
Some people are born with an aortic valve that has two flaps instead of three. Sometimes an aortic valve may have three flaps, but two flaps are fused together and act as one flap. This is called a bicuspid or bicommissural aortic valve. People who have this congenital condition are more likely to develop aortic heart valve disease.

Question: Who is at risk for Oxygen Therapy? ?
Answer: Oxygen therapy can cause complications and side effects. These problems might include a dry or bloody nose, skin irritation from the nasal cannula or face mask, fatigue (tiredness), and morning headaches.
                
If these problems persist, tell your doctor and home equipment provider. Depending on the problem, your doctor may need to change your oxygen flow rate or the length of time you're using the oxygen.
                
If nose dryness is a problem, your doctor may recommend a nasal spray or have a humidifier added to your oxygen equipment.
                
If you have an uncomfortable nasal cannula or face mask, your home equipment provider can help you find a device that fits better. Your provider also can recommend over-the-counter gels and devices that are designed to lessen skin irritation.
                
Complications from transtracheal oxygen therapy can be more serious. With this type of oxygen therapy, oxygen is delivered through a tube inserted into your windpipe through the front of your neck.
                
With transtracheal oxygen therapy:
                
Mucus balls might develop on the tube inside the windpipe. Mucus balls tend to form as a result of the oxygen drying out the airways. Mucus balls can cause coughing and clog the windpipe or tube.
                
Problems with the tube slipping or breaking.
                
Infection.
                
Injury to the lining of the windpipe.
                
Proper medical care and correct handling of the tube and other supplies may reduce the risk of complications.
                
Other Risks
                
In certain people, oxygen therapy may suppress the drive to breathe, affecting how well the respiratory system works. This is managed by adjusting the oxygen flow rate.
                
Oxygen poses a fire risk, so you'll need to take certain safety steps. Oxygen itself isn't explosive, but it can worsen a fire. In the presence of oxygen, a small fire can quickly get out of control. Also, the cylinder that compressed oxygen gas comes in might explode if exposed to heat.
                
Your home equipment provider will give you a complete list of safety steps you'll need to take at home and when out in public.
                
For example, when you're not using the oxygen, keep it in an airy room. Never store compressed oxygen gas cylinders and liquid oxygen containers in small, enclosed places, such as in closets, behind curtains, or under clothes.
                
Oxygen containers let off small amounts of oxygen. These small amounts can build up to harmful levels if they're allowed to escape into small spaces.

Question: Who is at risk for Diabetic Heart Disease? ?
Answer: People who have type 1 or type 2 diabetes are at risk for diabetic heart disease (DHD). Diabetes affects heart disease risk in three major ways.
                
First, diabetes alone is a very serious risk factor for heart disease. Second, when combined with other risk factors, diabetes further raises the risk of heart disease. Third, compared with people who don't have diabetes, people who have the disease are more likely to:
                
Have heart attacks and other heart and blood vessel diseases. In men, the risk is double; in women, the risk is triple.
                
Have more complications after a heart attack, such as angina (chest pain or discomfort) and heart failure.
                
Die from heart disease.
                
The higher your blood sugar level is, the higher your risk of DHD. (A higher than normal blood sugar level is a risk factor for heart disease even in people who don't have diabetes.)
                
Type 2 diabetes raises your risk of having silent heart diseasethat is, heart disease with no signs or symptoms. You can even have a heart attack without feeling symptoms. Diabetes-related nerve damage that blunts heart pain may explain why symptoms aren't noticed.
                
Other Risk Factors
                
Other factors also can raise the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) in people who have diabetes and in those who don't. You can control most of these risk factors, but some you can't.
                
For a more detailed discussion of these risk factors, go to the Health Topics Coronary Heart Disease Risk Factors article.
                
Risk Factors You Can Control
                
Unhealthy blood cholesterol levels. This includes high LDL cholesterol (sometimes called "bad" cholesterol) and low HDL cholesterol (sometimes called "good" cholesterol).
                
High blood pressure. Blood pressure is considered high if it stays at or above 140/90 mmHg over time. If you have diabetes or chronic kidney disease, high blood pressure is defined as 130/80 mmHg or higher. (The mmHg is millimeters of mercurythe units used to measure blood pressure.)
                
Smoking. Smoking can damage and tighten blood vessels, lead to unhealthy cholesterol levels, and raise blood pressure. Smoking also can limit how much oxygen reaches the body's tissues.
                
Prediabetes. This is a condition in which your blood sugar level is higher than normal, but not as high as it is in diabetes. If you have prediabetes and don't take steps to manage it, you'll likely develop type 2 diabetes within 10 years.
                
Overweight or obesity. Being overweight or obese raises your risk of heart disease and heart attack. Overweight and obesity also are linked to other heart disease risk factors, such as high blood cholesterol, high blood pressure, and diabetes. Most people who have type 2 diabetes are overweight.
                
Metabolic syndrome. Metabolic syndrome is the name for a group of risk factors that raises your risk of heart disease and type 2 diabetes. Metabolic syndrome also raises your risk of other health problems, such as stroke.
                
Lack of physical activity. Lack of physical activity can worsen other risk factors for heart disease, such as unhealthy blood cholesterol levels, high blood pressure, diabetes, and overweight or obesity.
                
Unhealthy diet. An unhealthy diet can raise your risk of heart disease. Foods that are high in saturated and trans fats, cholesterol, sodium (salt), and sugar can worsen other heart disease risk factors.
                
Stress. Stress and anxiety can trigger your arteries to tighten. This can raise your blood pressure and your risk of having a heart attack. Stress also may indirectly raise your risk of heart disease if it makes you more likely to smoke or overeat foods high in fat and sugar.
                
Risk Factors You Can't Control
                
Age. As you get older, your risk of heart disease and heart attack rises. In men, the risk of heart disease increases after age 45. In women, the risk increases after age 55. In people who have diabetes, the risk of heart disease increases after age 40.
                
Gender. Before age 55, women seem to have a lower risk of heart disease than men. After age 55, however, the risk of heart disease increases similarly in both women and men.
                
Family history of early heart disease. Your risk increases if your father or a brother was diagnosed with heart disease before 55 years of age, or if your mother or a sister was diagnosed with heart disease before 65 years of age.
                
Preeclampsia (pre-e-KLAMP-se-ah). This condition can develop during pregnancy. The two main signs of preeclampsia are a rise in blood pressure and excess protein in the urine. Preeclampsia is linked to an increased lifetime risk of CHD, heart attack, heart failure, and high blood pressure.

Question: Who is at risk for Endocarditis? ?
Answer: Infective endocarditis (IE) is an uncommon condition that can affect both children and adults. It's more common in men than women.
                
IE typically affects people who have abnormal hearts or other conditions that put them at risk for the infection. Sometimes IE does affect people who were healthy before the infection.
                
Major Risk Factors
                
The germs that cause IE tend to attach and multiply on damaged, malformed, or artificial (man-made) heart valves and implanted medical devices. Certain conditions put you at higher risk for IE. These include:
                
Congenital heart defects (defects that are present at birth). Examples include a malformed heart or abnormal heart valves.
                
Artificial heart valves, an implanted medical device in the heart (such as a pacemaker wire), or an intravenous (IV) catheter (tube) in a blood vessel for a long time.
                
Heart valves damaged by rheumatic fever or calcium deposits that cause age-related valve thickening. Scars in the heart from a previous case of IE also can damage heart valves.
                
IV drug use, especially if needles are shared or reused, contaminated substances are injected, or the skin isn't properly cleaned before injection.

Question: Who is at risk for Thrombocythemia and Thrombocytosis? ?
Answer: Primary Thrombocythemia
                
Thrombocythemia isn't common. The exact number of people who have the condition isn't known. Some estimates suggest that 24 out of every 100,000 people have primary thrombocythemia.
                
Primary thrombocythemia is more common in people aged 50 to 70, but it can occur at any age. For unknown reasons, more women around the age of 30 have primary thrombocythemia than men of the same age.
                
Secondary Thrombocytosis
                
You might be at risk for secondary thrombocytosis if you have a disease, condition, or factor that can cause it. (For more information, go to "What Causes Thrombocythemia and Thrombocytosis?")
                
Secondary thrombocytosis is more common than primary thrombocythemia. Studies have shown that most people who have platelet counts over 500,000 have secondary thrombocytosis.

Question: Who is at risk for Hemochromatosis? ?
Answer: Hemochromatosis is one of the most common genetic diseases in the United States. It's most common in Caucasians of Northern European descent. The disease is less common in African Americans, Hispanics, Asians, and American Indians.
                
Primary hemochromatosis is more common in men than in women. Also, older people are more likely to develop the disease than younger people. In fact, signs and symptoms usually don't occur in men until they're 40 to 60 years old.
                
In women, signs and symptoms usually don't occur until after the age of 50 (after menopause). Young children rarely develop hemochromatosis.
                
Inheriting two faulty HFE genes (one from each parent) is the major risk factor for hemochromatosis. However, many people who have two copies of the faulty gene don't develop signs or symptoms of the disease.
                
Alcoholism is another risk factor for hemochromatosis. A family history of certain diseases and conditions also puts you at higher risk for hemochromatosis. Examples of such diseases and conditions include heart attack, liver disease, diabetes, arthritis, and erectile dysfunction (impotence).

Question: Who is at risk for Cough? ?
Answer: People at risk for cough include those who:
                
Are exposed to things that irritate their airways (called irritants) or things that they're allergic to (called allergens). Examples of irritants are cigarette smoke, air pollution, paint fumes, and scented products. Examples of allergens are dust, animal dander, mold, and pollens from trees, grasses, and flowers.
                
Have certain conditions that irritate the lungs, such as asthma, sinus infections, colds, or gastroesophageal reflux disease.
                
Smoke. Smoking can irritate your lungs and cause coughing. Smoking and/or exposure to secondhand smoke also can lead to medical conditions that can cause a cough.
                
Take certain medicines, such as ACE inhibitors and beta blockers. ACE inhibitors are used to treat high blood pressure (HBP). Beta blockers are used to treat HBP, migraine headaches, and glaucoma.
                
Women are more likely than men to develop a chronic cough. For more information about the substances and conditions that put you at risk for cough, go to "What Causes Cough?"

Question: Who is at risk for Pulmonary Embolism? ?
Answer: Pulmonary embolism (PE) occurs equally in men and women. The risk increases with age. For every 10 years after age 60, the risk of having PE doubles.
                
Certain inherited conditions, such as factor V Leiden, increase the risk of blood clotting and PE.
                
Major Risk Factors
                
Your risk for PE is high if you have deep vein thrombosis (DVT) or a history of DVT. In DVT, blood clots form in the deep veins of the bodymost often in the legs. These clots can break free, travel through the bloodstream to the lungs, and block an artery.
                
Your risk for PE also is high if you've had the condition before.
                
Other Risk Factors
                
Other factors also can increase the risk for PE, such as:
                
Being bedridden or unable to move around much
                
Having surgery or breaking a bone (the risk goes up in the weeks following the surgery or injury)
                
Having certain diseases or conditions, such as a stroke, paralysis (an inability to move), chronic heart disease, or high blood pressure
                
Smoking
                
People who have recently been treated for cancer or who have a central venous catheter are more likely to develop DVT, which increases their risk for PE. A central venous catheter is a tube placed in a vein to allow easy access to the bloodstream for medical treatment.
                
Other risk factors for DVT include sitting for long periods (such as during long car or airplane rides), pregnancy and the 6-week period after pregnancy, and being overweight or obese. Women who take hormone therapy pills or birth control pills also are at increased risk for DVT.
                
The risk of developing blood clots increases as your number of risk factors increases.

Question: Who is at risk for Aneurysm? ?
Answer: Certain factors put you at higher risk for an aortic aneurysm. These factors include:
                
Male gender. Men are more likely than women to have aortic aneurysms.
                
Age. The risk for abdominal aortic aneurysms increases as you get older. These aneurysms are more likely to occur in people who are aged 65 or older.
                
Smoking. Smoking can damage and weaken the walls of the aorta.
                
A family history of aortic aneurysms. People who have family histories of aortic aneurysms are at higher risk for the condition, and they may have aneurysms before the age of 65.
                
A history of aneurysms in the arteries of the legs.
                
Certain diseases and conditions that weaken the walls of the aorta. Examples include high blood pressure and atherosclerosis.
                
Having a bicuspid aortic valve can raise the risk of having a thoracic aortic aneurysm. A bicuspid aortic valve has two leaflets instead of the typical three.
                
Car accidents or trauma also can injure the arteries and increase the risk for aneurysms.
                
If you have any of these risk factors, talk with your doctor about whether you need screening for aneurysms.

Question: Who is at risk for Pulmonary Hypertension? ?
Answer: The exact number of people who have pulmonary hypertension (PH) isn't known.
                
Group 1 pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) without a known cause is rare. It affects women more often than men. People who have group 1 PAH tend to be overweight.
                
PH that occurs with another disease or condition is more common.
                
PH usually develops between the ages of 20 and 60, but it can occur at any age. People who are at increased risk for PH include:
                
Those who have a family history of the condition.
                
Those who have certain diseases or conditions, such as heart and lung diseases, liver disease, HIV infection, or blood clots in the pulmonary arteries. (For more information about the diseases, conditions, and factors that cause PH, go to "Types of Pulmonary Hypertension.")
                
Those who use street drugs (such as cocaine) or certain diet medicines.
                
Those who live at high altitudes.

Question: Who is at risk for Deep Vein Thrombosis? ?
Answer: The risk factors for deep vein thrombosis (DVT) include:
                
A history of DVT.
                
Conditions or factors that make your blood thicker or more likely to clot than normal. Some inherited blood disorders (such as factor V Leiden) will do this. Hormone therapy or birth control pills also increase the risk of clotting.
                
Injury to a deep vein from surgery, a broken bone, or other trauma.
                
Slow blood flow in a deep vein due to lack of movement. This may occur after surgery, if you're ill and in bed for a long time, or if you're traveling for a long time.
                
Pregnancy and the first 6 weeks after giving birth.
                
Recent or ongoing treatment for cancer.
                
A central venous catheter. This is a tube placed in a vein to allow easy access to the bloodstream for medical treatment.
                
Older age. Being older than 60 is a risk factor for DVT, although DVT can occur at any age.
                
Overweight or obesity.
                
Smoking.
                
Your risk for DVT increases if you have more than one of the risk factors listed above.

Question: Who is at risk for Heart Palpitations? ?
Answer: Some people may be more likely than others to have palpitations. People at increased risk include those who:
                
Have anxiety or panic attacks, or people who are highly stressed
                
Take certain medicines or stimulants
                
Have certain medical conditions that aren't related to heart problems, such as an overactive thyroid
                
Have certain heart problems, such as arrhythmias (irregular heartbeats), a previous heart attack, heart failure, heart valve disease, or heart muscle disease
                
Women who are pregnant, menstruating, or perimenopausal also may be at higher risk for palpitations because of hormonal changes. Some palpitations that occur during pregnancy may be due to anemia.
                
For more information about these risk factors, go to "What Causes Palpitations?"

Question: Who is at risk for Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia? ?
Answer: The more premature an infant is and the lower his or her birth weight, the greater the risk of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD).
                
Most infants who develop BPD are born more than 10 weeks before their due dates, weigh less than 2 pounds (about 1,000 grams) at birth, and have breathing problems. Infections that occur before or shortly after birth also can contribute to BPD.
                
The number of babies who have BPD is higher now than in the past. This is because of advances in care that help more premature infants survive.
                
Many babies who develop BPD are born with serious respiratory distress syndrome (RDS). However, some babies who have mild RDS or don't have RDS also develop BPD. These babies often have very low birth weights and one or more other conditions, such as patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) and sepsis.
                
PDA is a heart problem that occurs soon after birth in some babies. Sepsis is a serious bacterial infection in the bloodstream.

Question: Who is at risk for Cardiomyopathy? ?
Answer: People of all ages and races can have cardiomyopathy. However, certain types of the disease are more common in certain groups.
                
Dilated cardiomyopathy is more common in African Americans than Whites. This type of the disease also is more common in men than women.
                
Teens and young adults are more likely than older people to have arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia, although it's rare in both groups.
                
Major Risk Factors
                
Certain diseases, conditions, or factors can raise your risk for cardiomyopathy. Major risk factors include:
                
A family history of cardiomyopathy, heart failure, or sudden cardiac arrest (SCA)
                
A disease or condition that can lead to cardiomyopathy, such as coronary heart disease, heart attack, or a viral infection that inflames the heart muscle
                
Diabetes or other metabolic diseases, or severe obesity
                
Diseases that can damage the heart, such as hemochromatosis, sarcoidosis, or amyloidosis
                
Long-term alcoholism
                
Long-term high blood pressure
                
Some people who have cardiomyopathy never have signs or symptoms. Thus, it's important to identify people who may be at high risk for the disease. This can help prevent future problems, such as serious arrhythmias (irregular heartbeats) or SCA.

Question: Who is at risk for Aplastic Anemia? ?
Answer: Aplastic anemia is a rare but serious blood disorder. People of all ages can develop aplastic anemia. However, it's most common in adolescents, young adults, and the elderly. Men and women are equally likely to have it.
                
The disorder is two to three times more common in Asian countries.
                
Your risk of aplastic anemia is higher if you:
                
Have been exposed to toxins
                
Have taken certain medicines or had radiation or chemotherapy (treatments for cancer)
                
Have certain infectious diseases, autoimmune disorders, or inherited conditions
                
For more information, go to "What Causes Aplastic Anemia?"

Question: Who is at risk for Iron-Deficiency Anemia? ?
Answer: Infants and Young Children
                
Infants and young children need a lot of iron to grow and develop. The iron that full-term infants have stored in their bodies is used up in the first 4 to 6 months of life.
                
Premature and low-birth-weight babies (weighing less than 5.5 pounds) are at even greater risk for iron-deficiency anemia. These babies don't have as much iron stored in their bodies as larger, full-term infants.
                
Iron-fortified baby food or iron supplements, when used properly, can help prevent iron-deficiency anemia in infants and young children. Talk with your child's doctor about your child's diet.
                
Young children who drink a lot of cow's milk may be at risk for iron-deficiency anemia. Milk is low in iron, and too much milk may take the place of iron-rich foods in the diet. Too much milk also may prevent children's bodies from absorbing iron from other foods.
                
Children who have lead in their blood also may be at risk for iron-deficiency anemia. Lead can interfere with the body's ability to make hemoglobin. Lead may get into the body from breathing in lead dust, eating lead in paint or soil, or drinking water that contains lead.
                
Teens
                
Teens are at risk for iron-deficiency anemia if they're underweight or have chronic (ongoing) illnesses. Teenage girls who have heavy periods also are at increased risk for the condition.
                
Women
                
Women of childbearing age are at higher risk for iron-deficiency anemia because of blood loss during their monthly periods. About 1 in 5 women of childbearing age has iron-deficiency anemia.
                
Pregnant women also are at higher risk for the condition because they need twice as much iron as usual. The extra iron is needed for increased blood volume and for the fetus' growth.
                
About half of all pregnant women develop iron-deficiency anemia. The condition can increase a pregnant woman's risk for a premature or low-birth-weight baby.
                
Adults Who Have Internal Bleeding
                
Adults who have internal bleeding, such as intestinal bleeding, can develop iron-deficiency anemia due to blood loss. Certain conditions, such as colon cancer and bleeding ulcers, can cause blood loss. Some medicines, such as aspirin, also can cause internal bleeding.
                
Other At-Risk Groups
                
People who get kidney dialysis treatment may develop iron-deficiency anemia. This is because blood is lost during dialysis. Also, the kidneys are no longer able to make enough of a hormone that the body needs to produce red blood cells.
                
People who have gastric bypass surgery also may develop iron-deficiency anemia. This type of surgery can prevent the body from absorbing enough iron.
                
Certain eating patterns or habits may put you at higher risk for iron-deficiency anemia. This can happen if you:
                
Follow a diet that excludes meat and fish, which are the best sources of iron. However, vegetarian diets can provide enough iron if you eat the right foods. For example, good nonmeat sources of iron include iron-fortified breads and cereals, beans, tofu, dried fruits, and spinach and other dark green leafy vegetables.
                
Eat poorly because of money, social, health, or other problems.
                
Follow a very low-fat diet over a long time. Some higher fat foods, like meat, are the best sources of iron.
                
Follow a high-fiber diet. Large amounts of fiber can slow the absorption of iron.

Question: Who is at risk for Antiphospholipid Antibody Syndrome? ?
Answer: Antiphospholipid antibody syndrome (APS) can affect people of any age. The disorder is more common in women than men, but it affects both sexes.
                
APS also is more common in people who have other autoimmune or rheumatic disorders, such as lupus. ("Rheumatic" refers to disorders that affect the joints, bones, or muscles.)
                
About 10 percent of all people who have lupus also have APS. About half of all people who have APS also have another autoimmune or rheumatic disorder.
                
Some people have APS antibodies, but don't ever have signs or symptoms of the disorder. The mere presence of APS antibodies doesn't mean that you have APS. To be diagnosed with APS, you must have APS antibodies and a history of health problems related to the disorder.
                
However, people who have APS antibodies but no signs or symptoms are at risk of developing APS. Health problems, other than autoimmune disorders, that can trigger blood clots include:
                
Smoking
                
Prolonged bed rest
                
Pregnancy and the postpartum period
                
Birth control pills and hormone therapy
                
Cancer and kidney disease

Question: Who is at risk for Marfan Syndrome? ?
Answer: People at highest risk for Marfan syndrome are those who have a family history of the condition. If you have Marfan syndrome, you have a 50 percent chance of passing the altered gene to each of your children.
                
Marfan syndrome affects about 1 out of every 5,000 people in the United States. Men, women, and children, and people of all races, can have the condition.

Question: Who is at risk for Respiratory Failure? ?
Answer: People who have diseases or conditions that affect the muscles, nerves, bones, or tissues that support breathing are at risk for respiratory failure. People who have lung diseases or conditions also are at risk for respiratory failure. For more information, go to "What Causes Respiratory Failure?"

Question: Who is at risk for Stroke? ?
Answer: Certain traits, conditions, and habits can raise your risk of having a stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA). These traits, conditions, and habits are known as risk factors.
                
The more risk factors you have, the more likely you are to have a stroke. You can treat or control some risk factors, such as high blood pressure and smoking. Other risk factors, such as age and gender, you cant control.
                
The major risk factors for stroke include:
                
High blood pressure. High blood pressure is the main risk factor for stroke. Blood pressure is considered high if it stays at or above 140/90 millimeters of mercury (mmHg) over time. If you have diabetes or chronic kidney disease, high blood pressure is defined as 130/80 mmHg or higher.
                
Diabetes. Diabetes is a disease in which the blood sugar level is high because the body doesnt make enough insulin or doesnt use its insulin properly. Insulin is a hormone that helps move blood sugar into cells where its used for energy.
                
Heart diseases.Coronary heart disease,cardiomyopathy,heart failure, andatrial fibrillationcan cause blood clots that can lead to a stroke.
                
Smoking. Smoking can damage blood vessels and raise blood pressure. Smoking also may reduce the amount of oxygen that reaches your bodys tissues. Exposure to secondhand smoke also can damage the blood vessels.
                
Age and gender. Your risk of stroke increases as you get older. At younger ages, men are more likely than women to have strokes. However, women are more likely to die from strokes. Women who take birth control pills also are at slightly higher risk of stroke.
                
Race and ethnicity. Strokes occur more often in African American, Alaska Native, and American Indian adults than in white, Hispanic, or Asian American adults.
                
Personal or family history of stroke or TIA. If youve had a stroke, youre at higher risk for another one. Your risk of having a repeat stroke is the highest right after a stroke. A TIA also increases your risk of having a stroke, as does having a family history of stroke.
                
Brainaneurysmsor arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). Aneurysms are balloon-like bulges in an artery that can stretch and burst. AVMs are tangles of faulty arteries and veins that can rupture (break open) within the brain. AVMs may be present at birth, but often arent diagnosed until they rupture.
                
Other risk factors for stroke, many of which of you can control, include:
                
Alcohol and illegal drug use, including cocaine, amphetamines, and other drugs
                
Certain medical conditions, such as sickle cell disease, vasculitis (inflammation of the blood vessels), and bleeding disorders
                
Lack of physical activity
                
Overweight and Obesity
                
Stress and depression
                
Unhealthy cholesterol levels
                
Unhealthy diet
                
Use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), but not aspirin, may increase the risk of heart attack or stroke, particularly in patients who have had a heart attack or cardiac bypass surgery. The risk may increase the longer NSAIDs are used. Common NSAIDs include ibuprofen and naproxen.
                
Following a healthy lifestyle can lower the risk of stroke. Some people also may need to take medicines to lower their risk. Sometimes strokes can occur in people who dont have any known risk factors.

Question: Who is at risk for ARDS? ?
Answer: People at risk for ARDS have a condition or illness that can directly or indirectly injure their lungs.
                
Direct Lung Injury
                
Conditions that can directly injure the lungs include:
                
Pneumonia. This is an infection in the lungs.
                
Breathing in harmful fumes or smoke.
                
Inhaling vomited stomach contents from the mouth.
                
Using a ventilator. This is a machine that helps people breathe; rarely, it can injure the lungs.
                
Nearly drowning.
                
Indirect Lung Injury
                
Conditions that can indirectly injure the lungs include:
                
Sepsis. This is a condition in which bacteria infect the bloodstream.
                
Severe bleeding caused by an injury to the body or having many blood transfusions.
                
An injury to the chest or head, such as a severe blow.
                
Pancreatitis (PAN-kre-a-TI-tis). This is a condition in which the pancreas becomes irritated or infected. The pancreas is a gland that releases enzymes and hormones.
                
Fat embolism (EM-bo-lizm). This is a condition in which fat blocks an artery. A physical injury, like a broken bone, can lead to a fat embolism.
                
Drug reaction.

